PRIVACY NOTICE (TIER 4)

Document Control Reference: GDPR REC 4.1 Issue No: 1 Issue Date: 24 May 2018 Page: 1 of 4

1. Scope
All data subjects whose personal data is collected, in line with the requirements of the GDPR.

2. Responsibilities
2.1 The Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner is responsible for ensuring that this notice is made available to data subjects prior to Morris UK Limited collecting/processing their personal data.
2.2 All Employees/Staff of Morris UK Limited who interact with data subjects are responsible for ensuring that this notice is drawn to the data subject's attention and their consent to the processing of their data is secured.

3. Privacy notice

3.1 Who are we? Morris UK Ltd is a print and digital content publisher working predominantly within tourism media and is wholly owned by Morris Communications Company, LLC

Our Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner and data protection representatives can be contacted directly here:
· privacy@morriseurope.com
· 020 7242 5222

The personal data we would like to collect from and process on you is:

Personal data type:

Source (where Morris UK Limited obtained the

personal data from if it has not been collected

directly from you, the data subject. Note if the

personal data has been accessed from publicly

accessible sources):

Contact information including your

Competitions and mailing list signups on our

name, phone number, address and email website and any of our associated social

address

media accounts.

The personal data we collect will be used for the following purposes: · Respond to customer requests, questions and concerns. · Send you requested product or service information.
Morris UK Limited

Public

PRIVACY NOTICE (TIER 4)

Document Control Reference: GDPR REC 4.1 Issue No: 1 Issue Date: 24 May 2018 Page: 2 of 4

· Keep you informed about special offers and services of Morris UK and selected third parties.
· Administer promotions and sweepstakes you enter and notify you of the results.
Our legal basis for processing for the personal data: · As necessary, to perform a contract with you, such as a contract to process an
order from you for one or more of our Services including, where applicable, taking payment and carrying out fulfilment and delivery. · As necessary, to comply with a legal obligation, for the following purposes:
o where you exercise your rights under data protection law and make requests; and
o to comply with any legal obligation, any lawful request from government or law enforcement officials and as may be required to meet national security or law enforcement requirements or prevent illegal activity.
· As necessary, for our legitimate interests in providing the Services and ensuring they operate safely, securely and in a commercially suitable way which is tailored to your use and interests, for the following purposes: o to provide you with the Services; o to help us to ensure our customers are genuine and to prevent fraud; o to ensure the security of our websites, mobile applications and other technology systems; o for the good governance of our business, including keeping financial records, to allow us to pay suppliers and to charge, invoice or refund customers; o to search credit reference agencies before we provide you with credit; o to provide you with information about our Services, to contact you about administrative matters, and to manage and respond to any queries or complaints you make or any correspondence you send us; o to process your competition entries and your survey or voting information; o for the purpose of marketing our Services and goods and services from other companies, including sending marketing communications and, where applicable, processing your registration, creating custom marketing audiences on third-party websites such as Facebook, and profiling and automated decision-making relating to our marketing; o to "geo-fence" marketing so that you receive marketing communications or see advertisements which are relevant to your location; o to operate competitions, including notifying you if you have won, to confirm delivery of a prize or for other related purposes; and o for market research and statistical analysis and to analyse the use of our Services so that we can improve them.
· Based on your consent, for the following purposes: o to send you marketing communications.

Morris UK Limited

Public

PRIVACY NOTICE (TIER 4)

Document Control Reference: GDPR REC 4.1 Issue No: 1 Issue Date: 24 May 2018 Page: 3 of 4

3.2 Consent By consenting to this privacy notice you are giving us permission to process your personal data specifically for the purposes identified. Consent is required for Morris UK Limited to process both types of personal data, but it must be explicitly given. Where we are asking you for sensitive personal data we will always tell you why and how the information will be used.
You can withdraw your consent to receive marketing communications by clicking on the unsubscribe link in an email.
You can also withdraw your consent to receive marketing communications or any other consent you have previously provided to us by contacting us at privacy@morriseurope.com.
3.3 Disclosure Morris UK Limited will not pass on your personal data to third parties without first obtaining your consent.
We use industry standard technical and organisational security measures to protect your personal data. We keep your personal data secure by implementing policies, procedures and access controls so that only authorised members of our staff or authorised third parties can access your personal data. We protect our information technology systems with firewalls and anti-virus and anti-malware software and other information security technology solutions. When we transfer your personal data to third parties we use encryption.
We cannot guarantee the security of your personal data when you transmit it to us. For example, if you email us your personal data, you should be aware that email is not a secure transmission method. As such, you acknowledge and accept that we cannot guarantee the security of your personal data transmitted to us and that any such transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your personal data, we will use strict procedures and security features to prevent unauthorised access.
3.4 Retention period Morris UK Limited will process and retain your personal data for as long as you use our Services and for up to two years after your last use of our Services or your last interaction with us (for example, the last time you opened an electronic communication from us or visited one of our websites).
We will retain your personal data for longer if we believe we may need them in order to respond to any claims, to protect our rights or the rights of a third party, and we will retain your personal data for longer if we are required to retain them in order to comply with applicable laws.

Morris UK Limited

Public

PRIVACY NOTICE (TIER 4)

Document Control Reference: GDPR REC 4.1 Issue No: 1 Issue Date: 24 May 2018 Page: 4 of 4

We will always retain your personal data in accordance with data protection law and never retain your personal data for longer than is necessary.

3.5 Your rights as a data subject At any point while we are in possession of or processing your personal data, you, the data subject, have the following rights: · Right of access ­ you have the right to request a copy of the information that we hold about you. · Right of rectification ­ you have a right to correct data that we hold about you that is inaccurate or incomplete. · Right to be forgotten ­ in certain circumstances you can ask for the data we hold about you to be erased from our records. · Right to restriction of processing ­ where certain conditions apply to have a right to restrict the processing. · Right of portability ­ you have the right to have the data we hold about you transferred to another organisation. · Right to object ­ you have the right to object to certain types of processing such as direct marketing. · Right to object to automated processing, including profiling ­ you also have the right to be subject to the legal effects of automated processing or profiling.
· Right to judicial review: in the event that Morris UK Limited refuses your request
under rights of access, we will provide you with a reason as to why. You have the right to complain as outlined in clause 3.6 below.
All of the above requests will be forwarded on should there be a third party involved (as stated in 3.4 above) in the processing of your personal data.
3.6 Complaints In the event that you wish to make a complaint about how your personal data is being processed by Morris UK Limited (or third parties as described in 3.4 above), or how your complaint has been handled, you have the right to lodge a complaint directly with the supervisory authority and Morris UK Limited's data protection representatives Data Protection Officer / GDPR Owner.
The supervisory authority for data protection matters in the UK would be the UK Information Commissioner's Office (https://ico.org.uk/). If you live in another EEA country, you may complain to the supervisory authority in your country. Alternatively, you may seek a remedy through local courts if you believe your rights have been breached.

Morris UK Limited

Public

