Rev. 6/17

FACTS WHAT DOES NAVY FEDERAL DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?

Why?

Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

What? How?

The types of personal information that we collect and share depend on the product or service that you have with us. This information can include:  your Social Security Number and income  account balances and payment history  account transactions and checking account information When you are no longer our Member, we continue to share your information as described in this notice.
All financial companies need to share members' personal information to run their everyday businesses. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their members' personal information, whether Navy Federal chooses to share, and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information

Does Navy Can you limit Federal share? this sharing?

For our everyday business purposes-such as to process your transactions,

maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report

Yes

No

to credit bureaus

For our marketing purposes-to offer our products and services to you

Yes

No

For joint marketing with other financial companies

Yes

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-information about your transactions and experiences

Yes

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-information about your creditworthiness

No

For nonaffiliates to market to you

No

No No
We don't share We don't share

Questions? Call toll-free 1-888-842-6328 or go to navyfederal.org.

 2017 Navy Federal NFCU 198 (6-17)

Who we are Who is providing this notice? What we do How does Navy Federal protect my personal information?
How does Navy Federal collect my personal information?
Why can't I limit all sharing?
Definitions Affiliates
Nonaffiliates
Joint marketing

Page 2
Navy Federal Credit Union; Navy Federal Financial Group, LLC; Navy Federal Brokerage Services, LLC
To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings. Navy Federal regularly tests and assesses its information security measures, systematically trains employees, and adopts upgrades and enhancements as necessary to protect your information. We collect your personal information, for example, when you:  open an account or deposit money  pay your bills or apply for a loan  use your credit or debit card We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies. Federal law gives you the right to limit only:  sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes-information about
your creditworthiness  affiliates from using your information to market to you  sharing for nonaffiliates to market to you State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing.
Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial companies.  Our affiliates include companies with a Navy Federal name: financial companies such
as Navy Federal Credit Union; Navy Federal Financial Group, LLC; Navy Federal Brokerage Services, LLC; or Navy Federal Title Services, LLC. Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial companies.  Navy Federal does not share with nonaffiliates so they can market to you. A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.  Our joint marketing partners include investment, insurance, and other financial services companies.

