REVISED 01/2016
FACTS Why?
What?

MKT-852 08.18
WHAT DOES WASHINGTON STATE EMPLOYEES CREDIT UNION (WSECU) AND WSECU SERVICE COMPANY, LLC, QCASH FINANCIAL, LLC AND ONE WASHINGTON FINANCIAL, LLC DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?

Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some -- but not all -- sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you have with us. This information can include:

 Social Security Number  Account balances  Transaction history

 Credit history  Income  Credit scores

How?

All financial companies need to share members' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their members' personal information; the reasons WSECU chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information
For our everyday business purposes -- such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus
For our marketing purposes -- to offer our products and services to you
For joint marketing with other financial companies
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes -- information about your transactions and experiences
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes -- information about your creditworthiness
For our affiliates to market to you
For non-affiliates to market to you

Does WSECU share?
Yes
Yes Yes Yes No Yes No

Can you limit this sharing?
No
Yes Yes No We don't share Yes We don't share

To limit our
sharing

 Call 800.562.0999
 Visit us online at wsecu.org and click on Terms & Conditions
Please note:  If you are a new member, we can begin sharing your information with our affiliates so they can market
to you 30 days from the date we send this notice.  When you are no longer a member, we will continue to share your information as described in this notice.  You can contact us at any time to limit our sharing.

Questions?

Call toll-free 800.562.0999 or go to wsecu.org.

Page 1 of 2

REVISED 08/2018
Who We Are Who is providing this notice? What We Do How does WSECU protect my personal information?
How does WSECU collect my personal information?
Why can't I limit all sharing?
What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else? Definitions
Affiliates
Non-affiliates
Joint marketing

Washington State Employees Credit Union (WSECU) and WSECU Service Company, LLC, QCash Financial, LLC and One Washington Financial, LLC.

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings.
We also maintain other physical, electronic and procedural safeguards to protect this information and we limit access to information to those employees for whom access is appropriate.

We collect your personal information, for example, when you:

 Open an account  Pay your bills  Apply for a loan

 Use your credit or debit card  Make deposits or withdrawals from your account

We also collect your personal information from credit bureaus and other companies.

Federal law gives you the right to limit only:
 Sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes -- information about your creditworthiness  Affiliates from using your information to market to you  Sharing for non-affiliates to market to you
State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing.

Your choices will apply to everyone on your account.

Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial companies. Our affiliates include:
 WSECU Service Company, LLC  QCash Financial, LLC, a provider of financial services, including cash management  One Washington Financial (OWF), a provider of financial services, including mortgage
servicing.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial companies.  WSECU does not share with non-affiliates so they can market to you.
A formal agreement between non-affiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.  Our joint marketing partners include providers of investment and financial services and
insurance companies.

Page 2 of 2

