Privacy notices, transparency and control
Your privacy notice checklist

What?
Decide what to include by working out:
 what personal information you hold;  what you do with it and what you are planning to do with it;  what you actually need;  whether you are collecting the information you need;  whether you are creating new personal information; and  whether there are multiple data controllers.
If you are relying on consent, you should:
 display it clearly and prominently;  ask individuals to positively opt-in;  give them sufficient information to make a choice;  explain the different ways you will use their information, if you
have more than one purpose;  provide a clear and simple way for them to indicate they agree to
different types of processing; and  include a separate unticked opt-in box for direct marketing.

Also consider including:
 the links between different types of data you collect and the purposes that you use each type of data for;
 the consequences of not providing information;  what you are doing to ensure the security of personal information;  information about people's right of access to their data; and  what you will not do with their data.
Where?
Give privacy information:
 orally;  in writing;  through signage; and  electronically.
Consider a layered approach:
 just in time notices;  video;  icons and symbols; and  privacy dashboards.

Privacy notices, transparency and control
When?
Actively give privacy information if:
 you are collecting sensitive information;  the intended use of the information is likely to be unexpected or
objectionable;  providing personal information, or failing to do so, will have a
significant effect on the individual; or  the information will be shared with another organisation in a way
that individuals would not expect.
How?
Write and present it effectively:
 use clear, straightforward language;  adopt a style that your audience will understand;  don't assume that everybody has the same level of understanding
as you;  avoid confusing terminology or legalistic language;  draw on research about features of effective privacy notices;  align to your house style;  align with your organisation's values and principles;

 be truthful. Don't offer people choices that are counter-intuitive or misleading;
 follow any specific sectoral rules;  ensure all your notices are consistent and can be updated rapidly;
and  provide separate notices for different audiences.
Test and review
Before roll out:
 test your draft privacy notice with users; and  amend it if necessary.
After roll out:
 keep your privacy notice under review;  take account of any complaints about information handling; and  update it as necessary to reflect any changes in your collection
and use of personal data.

