Why? What?
How?

T YOUR

Rev. 9/2016

Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.
The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you have with us. This information can include:
 Social Security number and income  Account balances and transaction history  Credit history and credit scores
When you are no longer our customer, we continue to share your information as described in this notice.
All financial companies need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their customers' personal information; the reasons The Bancorp chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information
For our everyday business purposes-- such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus
For our marketing purposes-- to offer our products and services to you
For joint marketing with other financial companies
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-- information about your transactions and experiences
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-- information about your creditworthiness
For nonaffiliates to market to you

Does The Bancorp share? Can you limit this sharing?

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

We don't share

No

We don't share

No

We don't share

No

We don't share

Visit: http://thebancorp.com/support/thebancorpbank/privacy-faqs/

2
Who we are
Who is providing this notice?
What we do
How does The Bancorp protect my personal information?
How does The Bancorp collect my personal information?
Why can't I limit all sharing?
Definitions
Affiliates
Nonaffiliates
Joint marketing

This notice is provided by the business units of The Bancorp, Inc., and its affiliates, including, but not limited to, The Bancorp Bank, Bancorp Card Services, Inc., and TBBK Direct Leasing, LLC.
To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured filesand buildings. We also limit access to information to those employees for whom access is necessary.
We collect your personal information, for example, when you  open an account or apply for a loan  pay your bills or make a wire transfer  provide account information
We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies.
Federal law gives you the right to limit only  sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes-- informationabout your creditworthiness  affiliates from using your information to market to you  sharing for nonaffiliates to market to you
State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing.
Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.
 Our affiliates include companies such as The Bancorp Bank, Bancorp Card Services, Inc., and TBBK Direct Leasing, LLC.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.
 The Bancorp does not share with nonaffiliates so they can market to you.
A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.
 The Bancorp doesn't jointly market.

