Encare Privacy Notice

Background

Encare AB understands that your privacy is important to you and that you care about how your personal data is used. We respect and value the privacy of all of our customers, collaborators, consultants, suppliers and business contacts and will only collect and use personal data related to your role at any of these functions, in ways that are described here, and in a way that is consistent with our obligations and your rights under the law.

1 Information about us
2 What Does This Notice Cover?
3 What is Personal Data?

Encare AB is a company registered in Sweden under number 556778-1728, whose registered office is at St Eriksgatan 117, 113 43 Stockholm, Sweden. Email info@enare.net, www.encare.net.
This Privacy Information explains how we use your personal data: how it is collected, how it is held, and how it is processed. It also explains your rights under the law relating to your personal data
Personal data is defined by the General Data Protection Regulation (EU Regulation 2016/679) (the "GDPR") as `any information relating to an identifiable person who can be directly or indirectly identified in particular by reference to an identifier'.
Personal data is, in simpler terms, any information about you that enables you to be identified. Personal data covers obvious information such as your name and contact details, but it also covers less obvious information such as identification numbers, electronic location data, and other online identifiers.
The personal data that we use is set out in Part 5, below.

4 What Are My Rights?
5 What Personal Data Do You Collect?

Under the GDPR, you have the following rights, which we will always work to uphold:
1. The right to be informed about our collection and use of your personal data. This Privacy Notice should tell you everything you need to know, but you can always contact us to find out more or to ask any questions using the details in Part 11.
2. The right to access the personal data we hold about you. Part 10 will tell you how to do this.
3. The right to have your personal data rectified if any of your personal data held by us is inaccurate or incomplete. Please contact us using the details in Part 11 to find out more.
4. The right to be forgotten, i.e. the right to ask us to delete or otherwise dispose of any of your personal data that we have. Please contact us using the details in Part 11 to find out more.
5. The right to restrict (i.e. prevent) the processing of your personal data.
6. The right to object to us using your personal data for a particular purpose or purposes.
7. Rights relating to automated decision-making and profiling. We do not use your personal data in this way.
For more information about our use of your personal data or exercising your rights as outlined above, please contact us using the details provided in Part 11.
Further information about your rights can also be obtained from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. If you have any cause for complaint about our use of your personal data, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the Swedish Data Protection Authority.
We may collect some or all of the following personal data (this may vary according to your relationship with us:
 Name
 Email address and/or IP address
 Telephone number
 Address
 Business/Organisation name
 Job title
 Profession
 Information about your interests in our products and services;

25MAY18

www.encare.net

1 of 3

Encare Privacy Notice

6 How Do You Use My Personal Data?

Under the GDPR, we must always have a lawful basis for using personal data. This may be because the data is necessary for our performance of a contract with you, your company and/or organisation, because you have consented to our use of your personal data, or because it is in our legitimate business interests to use it. Your personal data may be used for one or more of the following purposes:

 Providing and managing your account.

 Supplying our products and/or services to you.

 Communicating with you. This may include responding to emails or calls from you.

 Supplying you with information by email and/or post that you have opted-in to (you may unsubscribe or opt-out at any time by contacting us).

With your permission and/or where permitted by law, we may also use your personal data for marketing purposes, which may include contacting you by email and/or telephone and/or text message and/or post with information, news, and offers on our products and/or services. You will not be sent any unlawful marketing or spam. We will always work to fully protect your rights and comply with our obligations under the GDPR and you will always have the opportunity to opt-out.

7 How Long Will You Keep My Personal Data?

We will not keep your personal data for any longer than is necessary in light of the reason(s) for which it was first collected. Your personal data related to your role at one of the following functions; customer, consultants, suppliers and business contacts; will be kept throughout the length of any contractual obligation that is upheld between us and any of the functions and if terminated, up to 3 years thereafter unless statutory requirements stipulate a longer period.

8 How and Where Do You Store or Transfer My Personal Data?

We will only store your personal data in the EU. This means that it will be fully protected under the GDPR.

9 Do You Share My Personal Data?
10 How Can I Access My Personal Data?

We will not share any of your personal data with any third parties for any purposes, subject to one important exception.
We may sometimes contract with the third parties to supply products and/or services to you on our behalf. These may include payment processing, delivery, and marketing. In some cases, those third parties may require access to some or all of your personal data that we hold.
If any of your personal data is required by a third party, as described above, we will take steps to ensure that your personal data is handled safely, securely, and in accordance with your rights, our obligations, and the third party's obligations under the law.
We contract with third parties (as described above), and those third parties are located within the EU. If any personal data is transferred to a third party outside of the EU, we will take suitable steps in order to ensure that your personal data is treated just as safely and securely as it would be under the GDPR, as explained above in Part 8.
In some limited circumstances, we may be legally required to share certain personal data, which might include yours, if we are involved in legal proceedings or complying with legal obligations, a court order, or the instructions of a government authority.
If you want to know what personal data we have about you, you can ask us for details of that personal data and for a copy of it (where any such personal data is held). This is known as a "subject access request".
All subject access requests should be made in writing and sent to the email or postal addresses shown in Part 11.
There is not normally any charge for a subject access request. If your request is `manifestly unfounded or excessive' (for example, if you make repetitive requests) a fee may be charged to cover our administrative costs in responding.
We will respond to your subject access request within less than one month and, in any case, not more than one month of receiving it. Normally, we aim to provide a complete response, including a copy of your personal data within that time. In some cases, however, particularly if your request is more complex, more time may be required up to a maximum of three months from the date we receive your request. You will be kept fully informed of our progress.

25MAY18

www.encare.net

2 of 3

Encare Privacy Notice

11 How Do I Contact You?
12 Changes to this Privacy Notice

To contact us about anything to do with your personal data and data protection, including to make a subject access request, please use the following details:
Email address: info@encare.net
Postal address: St Eriksgatan 117, 113 43 Stockholm, Sweden
We may change this Privacy Notice from time to time. This may be necessary, for example, if the law changes, or if we change our business in a way that affects personal data protection.
Any changes will be made available at www.encare.net.

25MAY18

www.encare.net

3 of 3

