PRIVACY NOTICE General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
This privacy notice has been written to inform prospective, current, and former employees of Pathfinder Multi Academy Trust, about how and why we process their personal data.
Who are we?
Pathfinder Multi Academy Trust is a `Data Controller' as defined by Article 4 (7) of GDPR. This means that we determine the purposes for which, and the manner in which, your personal data is processed. We have a responsibility to you and your personal data and will only collect and use this in ways which are compliant with data protection legislation.
The Trust has appointed Veritau Ltd to be its Data Protection Officer (DPO). The role of the DPO is to ensure that the Trust is compliant with GDPR and to oversee data protection procedures. Veritau's contact details are:
Matt North Information Governance Veritau Ltd County Hall Racecourse Lane Northallerton DL7 8AL
schoolsDPO@veritau.co.uk 01609 53 2526
What information do we collect and why do we need it?
The personal data we collect about you includes:
 Personal identifiers (your name, address, date of birth etc)  Previous job experience and qualifications (including copies of certificates and employment
references)  Information about your employment attendance and performance (including disciplinary
information)  Information about your ethnicity, religious beliefs and trade union membership (for the purposes
of equality monitoring)  Information about your right to work  Relevant medical information which affects your employment  Emergency contact information of those individuals you identify  Financial information, including bank account information, tax, national insurance and pension
contributions to facilitate salary payments
We process your information for the reasons outlined below. This is in order to fulfil our obligations associated with your employment in line with Article 6 (1)(a) and Article 9 (2)(b) of GDPR:
 Contractual requirements  Employment checks e.g. right to work in the UK  Salary requirements

Photographs
Schools within Pathfinder Multi Academy Trust may use staff photographs on their websites. The school will seek your consent to use your photograph. Please note that you can withdraw this consent at any time.
Who has access to your personal data?
Your information will only be made available to those who need it to do their job in relation to your employment. This includes your line manager(s), the business manager, and relevant administrative staff.
Your name, job title, work email address, telephone number, photograph and office base will be available in our internal telephone directory.
Who do we share your personal data with?
We will share your information with the following organisations:  HM Revenue & Customs  Department of Work and Pension, if applicable  Pension Fund/Teachers' Pensions fund  Any salary sacrifice arrangement you sign up to e.g. CycleScheme  Your trade union  Examining bodies  Atlantic Data Ltd (Disclosure and barring service to conduct criminal record checks)  Strictly Education Ltd (Disclosure and barring service to conduct criminal record checks)  DfE Employer Access  Teachers' Pensions  Prospective future employers, landlords, letting agents, or mortgage brokers where you have asked them to contact us to seek a reference  City of York Council  SIMS (Information Management System)  Integris (Information Management System)  Carval (HR Software)  FSE Design (Website Provider)  Primary Site (Website Provider)  School Jotter (Website Provider)  SeeGreen (Website Provider)  e4education (Website Provider)  SiteGround (Website Hosting)  GoDaddy (Email Hosting)  Smart Solutions Legal Services  ParentPay  WisePay  Office 365  Google Drive  NYCC Staff Absense  Vital (IT Services)
We have duties under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 to disclose information we hold unless there is a very good reason to withhold it. Therefore we may disclose your name and work email address publicly in response to a request if we are required to do so.

How long do we keep your personal data for?
Pathfinder Multi Academy Trust will keep your data in line with our Information Policy. Most of the information we process about you will be determined by statutory obligations. Any personal information which we are not required by law to retain will only be kept for as long as is necessary to fulfil our organisational needs.
Do you transfer my data outside of the UK?
Generally the information that the Trust holds is all held within the UK. However, some information may be held on computer servers which are held outside of the UK. We will take all reasonable steps to ensure your data is not processed in a country that is not seen as `safe' by the UK government. If we do need to send your data out of the European Economic Area it will ensure it has extra protection from loss or unauthorised access.
What rights do you have over your data?
Under GDPR, individuals have the following rights in relation to the processing of their personal data:
 to be informed about how we process your personal data. This notice fulfils this obligation  to request access to your personal data that we hold, and be provided with a copy of it  to request that your personal data is amended if inaccurate or incomplete  to request that your personal data is erased where there is no compelling reason for its
continued processing  to request that the processing of your personal data is restricted  to object to your personal data being processed
If you have any concerns about the way we have handled your personal data or would like any further information, then please contact our DPO on the address provided above.
If we cannot resolve your concerns you may also complain to the Information Commissioner's Office (the Data Protection Regulator) about the way in which the school has handled your personal data. You can do so by contacting:
First Contact Team Information Commissioner's Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
casework@ico.gsi.gov.uk 03031 231113

