Business Track Online Privacy & Cookies Statement
Effective June 23, 2016
First Data Merchant Services LLC is a subsidiary of First Data Corporation.
Protecting the privacy of users of Business Track (including Client Line) is important to us. Our Online Privacy & Cookies Statement is designed to inform you about our collection and use of personal information on this website. From time to time, First Data may make changes to this Online Privacy & Cookies Statement so we encourage you to check back and review it regularly to ensure you are aware of current practices.
The Online Privacy & Cookies Statement is available on the home page of this website and throughout the website where you provide us with personal information.
If you have any questions, please contact the First Data Privacy Office at dataprivacyoffice@firstdata.com or (888) 337-0434.
The Personal Information We Collect Through This Site is the Personal Information You Provide to Us.
The personal information we collect about you on this website is the information that you provide to us. This information may include, for example, name, mailing address, email address, phone number and similar information. In some cases you may provide it directly, such as by entering information into an application or online form, and in some cases you may provide it indirectly, such as the IP address of the computer or device you use to connect with us online. We may use the personal information you provide us to:
 provide you with the information you have requested,  facilitate and complete merchant-initiated or authorized transactions,  provide analytics and other value-added services,  comply with federal, state and local laws, including credit reporting laws and card
association rules,  verify information and combat fraud, or  send you other information about First Data and its services that we believe you would
find interesting.
When You Browse the First Data Website, We Do Not Seek to Determine Your Identity.
Personal information, such as your email address, is not included in cookies or local storage and is not collected unless you provide it to us. First Data does not disclose domain name or aggregate information to third parties other than vendors who assist us with our website and who are under contractual confidentiality requirements.
From time to time, however, we may disclose this information to fulfill legal or regulatory obligations or if we determine such disclosure is legally advisable or necessary to protect our rights, the rights of others, or to prevent harm (for example, for fraud prevention purposes we may confirm that your IP address matches the location you enter into an online form). In addition, we may aggregate data about users of our site and use it for statistical or analytic purposes. This information helps us to better understand our site's users and how to improve our site and our offerings.

Use of Cookies on this Website

This web site may use cookies or local storage solely to aggregate information about the pages that users visit so that we can update and redesign, as necessary, our web site in order to provide you with the most useful information.
A cookie is a small file, typically of letters and numbers, downloaded on to a device such as a computer when a user accesses certain websites. Cookies or local storage allow a website to recognise a user's device.
Cookies or local storage can expire at the end of a browser session (from when a user opens the browser window to when they exit the browser) or they can be stored for longer.
Session cookies ­ allow websites to link the actions of a user during a browser session. They may be used for a variety of purposes such as remembering what a user has put in their shopping basket as they browse around a site. They could also be used for security or to facilitate use of webmail. These session cookies expire after a browser session so would not be stored longer term.
Persistent cookies ­ are stored on a users' device in between browser sessions which allows the preferences or actions of the user across a site (or in some cases across different websites) to be remembered. Persistent cookies may be used for a variety of purposes including remembering users' preferences and choices when using a site or to target advertising
First and third party cookies ­ Whether a cookie is `first' or `third' party refers to the website or domain placing the cookie. First party cookies in basic terms are cookies set by a website visited by the user - the website displayed in the URL window. Third party cookies are cookies that are set by a domain other than the one being visited by the user. If a user visits a website and a separate company sets a cookie through that website this would be a third party cookie.
For more information about cookies or local storage, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage, block and delete them, see: http://www.allaboutcookies.org/.

This website uses the following cookies. You can delete, remove your consent and/or block cookies sent to you from this website but parts of the website may not then work.
To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout.

Cookie Name IV_JCT=%2FportalL
Username=value

Cookie Purpose
Without this cookie, there are some areas within the website that will not function properly. There is no personal information stored in this cookie.
Without this cookie, there are some areas within the website that will not function properly. There is no personal information stored in this cookie.

More Information None applicable
None applicable

Cookie Name
FORMCRED SMSESSION RIDISCD RIDBT RIDCLR RIDEMAPS RIDCMS RIDCARS RIDCOGNOS RIDCOGNOS10 RIDPTM RIDstart RIDstart_cat RIDeids RIDirs RIDasr RIDamacs RIDwebfocus RIDmotio RIDpbc RIDpbc_cat RIDcbp RIDmbm RIDcq5 RIDnro RIDBTM RIDmerchantmanger RIDtds RIDtdstest RIDiam RIDbuyview RIDmrouter JSESSIONID NSC_JOfpjrh1elflvxtbozfne1cbmyjj2cQ CLR LtpaToken2

Cookie Purpose
These cookies are part of the security infrastructure to ensure a user has been authenticated, that they have a valid session, and that they are authorized to view the request resource.

More Information None applicable

We Are Committed to Protecting the Confidentiality of User Information.
Our policies limit access to personal user information that is collected from this website to our employees and agents and the employees and/or agents of our affiliates and business partners who need the information to fulfill their business responsibilities. First Data may disclose personal information collected online to our affiliates and to vendors who assist us with the website. In some cases, this may require your information to be sent to other countries. By supplying your information on this website, you consent to your information being transferred across national borders to First Data and its affiliates, vendors or agents. Vendors and other outside contractors we engage are subject to our contractual requirements for safeguarding personal information.
Employees and others with duties related to this website must adhere to this Online Privacy & Cookies Statement. Our employees receive annual training about the privacy policies and procedures of First Data Corporation and its affiliates and subsidiaries. We appreciate that protecting consumer privacy is a key part of our trusted relationship with our clients.

Any employee violating this Online Privacy & Cookies Statement may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
By using this website, you agree that your use of Business Track and/or Client Line is limited to the terms stated in any applicable agreement you have with First Data.
We Use Appropriate Security Safeguards.
At First Data, security is a priority. First Data employs appropriate measures, including advanced technology, to protect personal information collected online against unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration or destruction. These measures may include, among others, encryption, physical access security, and other appropriate technologies. First Data reviews and enhances its security systems as necessary.
This Website is Not Directed at Persons Under the Age of 18.
Our website is not directed at or intended for persons under the age of 18 and First Data does not knowingly collect or maintain information at our web site from persons under the age of 18.
This Website May Be Linked to Other Websites.
As you navigate our site, you may click to websites of our affiliated companies or business partners. Those web sites may have their own online privacy statements or policies. This Online Privacy & Cookies Statement will not apply when you move to one of these other sites because affiliate privacy practices and policies are tailored to the products and services offered by the individual affiliate. If you visit the pages and sites of our affiliated business units please be sure to review the privacy policies applicable to those sites.
We may create links to third-party websites. First Data is not responsible for the privacy practices employed by any third-party websites. First Data's privacy policies and practices do not apply to these sites. First Data does not guarantee, approve, or endorse any information, material, services, or products contained on or available through any linked websites. First Data is not responsible for any content on sites linked from or to Business Track or Client Line. First Data is providing links to those sites as a convenience and your connection to and use of any linked site are at your own risk.
This Online Privacy & Cookies Statement applies only to the information we collect on Business Track (including Client Line). This Online Privacy & Cookies Statement does not apply to information we collect through other methods or sources, including sites owned or operated by our affiliates, vendors or partners.

If you are located in Mexico, the following Privacy Notice applies:
FIRST DATA MERCHANT SERVICES MÉXICO, S. DE R.L. DE C.V. (hereinafter referred to as ("First Data"), whose offices are located at Jaime Balmes numero 11, Torre "D", Piso 4, Colonia Los Morales, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo, C.P. 11510, is the Responsible Company (the "Responsible") for the lawful treatment, controlled and informed use, storage and disclosure of the personal data, which we collect in order to achieve the corporate targets through all the areas of the business and reiterate the commitment with the privacy and the right to the informational self-determination.
This Privacy Notice has the purpose of informing you about the treatment that will be given to your personal data when they are collected, used, stored and/or transferred by "First Data", which is performed in accordance with the Federal Law for Protection of Personal Data in Possession of Individuals (hereinafter, the "Law") and its Regulation.
Purposes and/or Use of the Personal Data
We may use your personal data with different purposes, depending on the particular circumstances in which they are collected, as well as for providing information and attention and your service. File of records of the contractual relationship for follow up of future services, financial management, preparation and delivery of quotations, formalization of contracts, sending of publications, invoices and collection, observing at all times our relationship with you and the specific Privacy Notice that, as the case may be, has been made available to you.
Rights in Respect to Your Personal Data
As personal data holder, you may exercise before the Personal Data Responsible of First Data, the rights of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition ("ARCO" rights). Likewise, you may revoke, at all times, the consent that you have given and which is necessary for the treatment of your data, as well as to limit the use or disclosure thereof.
The foregoing may be exercised by sending your request, in the terms established by the Law, to the e-mail address privacidaddedatos@firstdata.com or to the address shown on the first paragraph of this notice.
For ease of reference, the ARCO rights are briefly described below: Access: to be informed about which of your personal data are contained in the data bases of First Data, with which purpose you use such personal data, the origin and communications made therewith and, in general, the conditions and general issues related to their treatment. Rectification: your personal data may be corrected or updated when they are inaccurate or incomplete. Cancellation: your personal data may be deleted, whether completely or partially, from the data bases of First Data when you consider that they are not being treated in accordance with the principles and duties established by the Law. Opposition: when you have a legitimate cause, you may oppose to the use or treatment of your personal data.
If you wish to know what are the requirements and proceedings for the exercise of the ARCO rights, please contact the Personal Data Responsible of First Data.
Contact
Should you have any question or comment in respect to this Privacy Notice, please contact the Personal Data Protection Department (COMPLIANCE), at the following e-mail address: privacidaddedatos@firstdata.com, or at the address shown above.
The Privacy Notice on this page was updated October 24, 2017.

