Privacy Notice--European Union General Data Protection Regulation
Introduction
The University of Virginia is committed to supporting the privacy of students, scholars, faculty, and staff affiliated with the University of Virginia, and their dependents, whose personal data are covered by the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This Privacy Notice describes how we handle and use the personal information we collect about these students, scholars, faculty, and staff affiliated with the University of Virginia and their dependents who are involved in study abroad programs, student exchange programs with universities located in the European Economic Area, or other international studies programs. For the purpose of this Privacy Notice, personal data means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person.
UVA is responsible for the use of your personal data for the purposes described in this Privacy Notice, and our contact information can be found in the final section of this Notice.
Personal information we collect While the specific information varies by individual, in the course of our regular business related to student admission and enrollment, the issuance of visa documents, and employment, we may collect, use, store and transfer the kinds of information described below:
1. Contact information ­ home and business addresses, phone numbers, email addresses and social media contact information
2. Demographic information ­ names, gender, birth dates, race and ethnicity, citizenship 3. National ID information ­ passport number, social security number from those who
have one 4. Health insurance provider 5. Financial information 6. Employment information ­ job titles, company names and industry information 7. Family information ­ names and birth dates of spouse or partner, children and other
familial relationships
How we collect personal information We collect information from a variety of sources. A significant portion of the information we maintain is information provided directly to us by individuals submitting information to the University's Student Information System (SIS), the Terra Dotta Systems database for Education Abroad, Jobs@UVA, and/or visa forms. Other information may come from an institution where an exchange student is enrolled or a faculty or staff member is employed, under an agreement with that institution.

How we use personal information We use personal information for a number of legitimate purposes, as necessary to support the University of Virginia and its mission. Specifically, we use your personal information to:
1. process visa documents; 2. facilitate admission and course enrollment or employment and compensation; 3. facilitate set up of appropriate ID privileges according to status, e.g., student; ; 4. Contact individuals in the event of an emergency 5. Administer program functions We use the personal data for these purposes because we have a legitimate interest in administering our programs effectively. We also may use the personal data we collect to protect us against fraud, claims, and other liabilities and to comply with or enforce applicable legal requirements and our policies. We use personal data for these purposes when it is necessary to protect, exercise or defend our legal rights, or when we are required to do so by a law that applies to us.
When we share your personal information We may share personal data with service providers that support the administration of our programs, such as travel agencies and insurance companies. Service providers will enter into legally binding agreements requiring them to use personal data only as necessary to perform services on our behalf and to implement appropriate data security and confidentiality obligations, in accordance with applicable law.
Other third parties may include higher education institutions, research institutes, government agencies, non-governmental organizations, private sector partners, and the U.S. Department of State.
In addition, we may disclose personal data about you (i) if we are required or permitted to do so by law or legal process, for example due to a court order or a request from a law enforcement agency, (ii) when we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to prevent physical harm or financial loss, and (iii) in connection with an investigation of suspected or actual fraudulent or other illegal activity.
How your information is stored and secured The University of Virginia maintains technical and organizational safeguards to ensure an appropriate level of security and confidentiality for your personal data, in accordance with our policies and applicable laws.
How long we keep your personal information We retain personal information for purposes related to carrying out the University's mission, including charitable fundraising, archiving and statistical purposes, for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims, and for compliance with applicable laws.
2
UVA Privacy Notice

Rights of Individuals in the European Economic Area Subject to applicable law, you have the right to request access to and rectification of the personal data we maintain about you, or to request the restriction of the processing of your personal data or to object to that processing on grounds relating to your situation.
In addition, you may have the right to request erasure of your personal data from our systems in certain circumstances provided by applicable law. Where technically feasible, upon written request and verifiable identification, we will provide you with a copy of the personal data provided to us by you in a structured, commonly used, machine readable format. To exercise these rights, please use the contact information provided below. You may lodge a complaint with a data protection authority if you are not satisfied with our response.
If you provide information directly to the University of Virginia from the European Economic Area, by doing so you acknowledge that we may transfer your personal information outside of the European Economic Area to collect and store your personal data in the United States. You understand that the current laws and regulations of the United States may not provide the same level of protection as the data and privacy laws and regulations of the European Economic Are. For transfers from the European Economic Area to any United States affiliate, pursuant to Article 46 of the General Data Protection Regulation, we use Standard Contractual Clauses.
Changes to this Policy The University of Virginia reserves the right to change its privacy policies from time to time. Any material changes will be posted on the University's web site and any material changes relevant to this Privacy Statement will be incorporated into this document, with an edit date clearly indicated.
Additional Information and Assistance If you have any questions or concerns about this Privacy Statement and/or how we process personal information, or would like to exercise any of the legal rights described above, please contact us at: . Assistant Vice President for Compliance, 1001 N. Emmet St. Carruthers Hall, Room 276, P.O. Box 400190, Charlottesville, VA 22904-4190; 434-243-8992; compliance@virginia.edu.
8/10/18
3
UVA Privacy Notice

4
UVA Privacy Notice

