Nomad Financial Privacy Policy
This privacy policy details the information that Nomad Financial gathers, uses, maintains, and protects when you visit and use our website and/or our services. This version is as of July 26, 2018.
Acknowledgement By using our website you acknowledge that you have read and understood this Privacy Policy and agree to the processing of your personal information by Nomad Financial.
Changes to This Privacy Policy We may edit and alter our Privacy Policy. We have posted above when our most recent changes were made. You are also responsible for periodically visiting our Website to view this Privacy Policy to check for any changes or updated versions.
Information We Collect By visiting our website, you may not have to provide personal information. However, we, or our partners, may request information to perform a transaction or send marketing materials. We may collect and process the following information:
 Personal information which includes: first name, last name, email address, location, financing means to date, what kind of service interests you, and how you heard about Nomad financial
 Technical Information about your usage such as the type of device you may be using (mobile, tablet, desktop) to visit our Website, your operating system, your web browser type, IP address, information about your visit including the URL clickstream to, through and from our website (such as scrolling, clicks and mouse overs), length of visits to certain pages, page interaction, and the date(s) and time(s) you visited nomadfinancial.com
 Confidential Information, such as financial documents, statements, bank information, social security, state ID information, etc.
How We Collect It We collect information from you when you provide when filling out our online forms automatically when you click through the website. The information collected is described above in the section "information we collect."
How We Use Collected Information To provide you with the products and services you requested, including support services; To provide you information about product and services that may interest you; To contact you as part of our customer satisfaction surveys or for market research purposes; To notify you about changes to our services ;

To administer our website for internal operations including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research, statisticaland survey purposes; To ensure that content from our website is presented in the most effective manner for you and your devices.
Information Security Any electronic communication sent to us through our Website or via e-mail may not be secure and thus may be disclosed. Therefore, even though we provide a secure Client Portal and take efforts to keep our Client Portal secure, there is no guarantee that it will be secure at all times. Please also be aware that the sending of electronic mail to our professionals or through other contact/address provided in the site does not create a client relationship between you and the Company, and the contents of any such electronic mail are not privileged.
Information Disclosure We may also disclose your personal information: To comply with any court order, law, or legal process, including to respond to a ny government or regulatory request; To enforce or apply our Terms of Use, this Privacy Policy, and other agreements, including for billing and collection purposes; If we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to protect the rights, property, or safety of our company, our customers, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for the purposes of fraud protection and credit risk reduction.
Questions about this Privacy Policy This website is maintained by Nomad Financial. If you have a question about this Privacy Policy or our handling of your information, you can contact Nomad Financial at info@nomadfinancial.com.

