Privacy Notice
for Patients & Service Users
Our purpose for collecting and using information about you This notice explains how Shropshire Community Health NHS Trust uses and manages the personal data or information we hold about you, including how we share it with NHS and non-NHS organisations and how we maintain appropriate confidentiality. Under the Data Protection legislation the Trust is defined as a `data controller' of personal information. We collect information to help us provide and manage health and care to meet the needs of our patients.
It might help to understand that personal information can be anything that identifies a living individual. Therefore, your personal information is anything that can be attributed to you personally, including your name, weight, height, date of birth, health conditions and treatments you receive. So long as you can be identified from it, it is your personal information.
The Trust is registered with the Information Commissioner's Office (registration number Z2709115)
The Trust provides a range of community-based health services for adults and children in Shropshire, Telford and Wrekin, and some services to people in surrounding areas.
Our legal basis for processing
As an NHS provider of healthcare we must keep accurate records and we have a lawful basis to collect and use your personal information, such as name, address, DOB and also more sensitive information regarding which includes your health (which is known as special category data). We need to keep full and accurate records about the health care and treatment you receive as one of our patients. This helps us to make sure you get the best possible care from us and that full information is readily available if you see another doctor or are referred to a specialist or another part of the NHS.
 The lawful basis for processing your personal information is: o the Trust is required to process this data in the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the data controller's official authority
 The lawful basis for processing special category data (for example sensitive information such as your health information) is: o to enable the provision of health or social care or treatment or the management of health of social care systems and services.
Page 1 of 3 SCHT Privacy Notice Patients & Service Users v1.0 Final

How will your information be used?
The Trust has a statutory obligation to collect and use information, for example during a stay in hospital, attending a clinic or accessing any of our other services.
We will always try only to share the minimum amount of personal information required, anonymising where necessary.
However, Information sharing is essential for high quality health and care services and therefore we will share your information with others who need to be involved so that we can offer the best care and quality service for you. We may share personal information with the following organisations for the purposes of delivering or improving healthcare, or where there is a legal requirement for us to do so:
 General Practitioners (GPs)  Ambulance services  Pharmacists  Dentists  Other NHS Trusts and services  Clinical Commissioning Groups  Social care teams  Department for Work & Pensions  Education services  Voluntary and private sector providers  Out of hours services
We call this sharing information for direct care.
Sometimes we will use and share personal and/or sensitive information beyond direct care e.g. for planning services and research purposes; we call this non-direct care or secondary use. When sharing your information for such a reason, it is not always necessary to use information that can identify you. When this is the case we will anonymise the information or give it a code (pseudonymise). If we need to use
identifiable information we will discuss this with you and explain the reasons in case you feel that you do not want your information used in this way.
When we use third party providers and suppliers, for example purchasing and delivering medicines and healthcare products to you, we will have a local contract in place and we will have in place appropriate agreements and instructions regarding the appropriate use and security of your information. This will help to ensure that your information is used for the right purpose and that your privacy is protected.
We never share your information for insurance or marketing purposes.
Keeping your information safe and secure
Our staff are trained to handle your information correctly and protect your privacy and keep your information secure. We aim to maintain high standards and regularly check and report on how we are doing. Staff working in the Trust can only access information when authorised to do so, when its relevant or on a need to know basis. Where we fall below acceptable standards we investigate and report serious incidents to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO).
Everyone working in the NHS signs up to the NHS code of confidentiality.
Page 2 of 3 SCHT Privacy Notice Patients & Service Users v1.0 Final

How long do we keep your records ?
We do not keep your care records for longer than necessary. All our records are destroyed in accordance with the Department of Health and Social Care guidance Records Management Code of Practice for Health and Social Care 2016 which sets out the appropriate length of time different types of records are retained. Typically adult care records are retained for eight years, maternity records for 25 years and cancer records for 30 years. All records are destroyed confidentially once their retention period has expired
Other important points
 If you have any concerns regarding your information or your individual rights please speak to a healthcare professional or contact the Data Protection Officer (details below).
 Under the data protection legislation you have the right to make a request to us, as the data controller, to access your information and also raise any concerns regarding the handling of your information. For example you may feel the information needs rectifying, erasing or restricting.
 We will also use your information on a lawful basis for the purpose of keeping staff and patients safe on Trust premises, this includes CCTV and parking management systems. Capturing information in this way is not used to routinely monitor our patients and service users, however, it may be used for things like police investigations or proceedings following an incident.
 Further information about your rights can be found in the Trust's Information Governance Policy and the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO). Here: Trust Information Governance Policy and ICO - Your Individual Rights
Data Portability
As our systems develop in the future we may automatically transfer specific information about you to other health or social care providers, when we do this we will notify you and explain the reason for this. A good example of data portability is the electronic transfer of specific information like your name, address, date of birth and account details, when you change your utility service and bank.
Incident Reporting
We will report, manage and investigate incidents in accordance with Trust Policies link Incident Reporting Policy
and notify the DoH and ICO, without undue delay, of any serious incidents.
Data Protection Officer and the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO)
You can contact our Data Protection Officer if you have queries or concerns regarding the handling of your information:
Email Shropcom.dataprotection@nhs.net or Tel: 01743 871967, or write to Shropshire Community Health NHS Trust, Information Governance Department, William Farr House,
Corridor J, Mytton Oak Road, Shrewsbury SY3 8XL.
Related Information Governance Trust policies can be found here: Other Related Trust Policies We will regularly review, and where necessary, update this Privacy Notice and bring any new uses of personal data to your attention. If you wish to make a complaint about the use of your information you can contact the ICO here: https://ico.org.uk/
Page 3 of 3 SCHT Privacy Notice Patients & Service Users v1.0 Final

