Online Privacy Policy
1. About the Privacy Policy ADvTECH respects privacy and is committed to protecting the privacy of visitors to this site. ADvTECH seeks to employ best practice when it comes to the collection and processing of personal information in accordance with data protection or privacy legislation.
This policy applies to ADvTECH Limited, its subsidiaries and business units. Reference to ADvTECH in this policy shall mean ADvTECH Limited and any of its subsidiaries.
If you follow a link to any other website, please check their policies before you submit any personal information to those websites as ADvTECH is not responsible for information that captured and processed on linked websites.
2. What is Personal Information? Personal information is information that identifies you as an individual, and includes:
 Information relating to your race, gender, sex, pregnancy, marital status, national, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, physical or mental health, well-being, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, language and birth;
 Information relating to your education which includes results, student or pupil history and so on;  Information relating to medical (including biometrics), financial, criminal or employment history;  Any identifying number symbol, e-mail address, physical address, telephone number, location information,
online identifier or other particular assignment to you;  Your personal opinions, views or preferences;  The views or opinions of another individual about a proposal for a grant, an award or a prize to be made to
the individual  Your private or confidential correspondence (including correspondence that can reveal your original private or
confidential correspondence); the views of opinions of another individual about you; and  Your name if it appears with your other personal information or if your name itself would reveal information
about you.
3. Information Collected You may be asked or be required to provide limited personal information in order to enable us to provide certain services to you (e.g. requesting further information, applying for a vacancy, enrolling in a school, prospectus ordering). ADvTECH may store this information manually or electronically. ADvTECH will only use it for the purposes for which it was provided, if you have consented to it. Information provided will be kept for as long as is necessary to fulfill that purpose.
Page 1 of 3

We may also collect information about your computer including, where available, your IP address, operating system and browser type, for system administration purposes and to report aggregate information to our webmasters. This information reveals nothing personal about you. It is statistical data about our users' browsing actions and patterns which does not identify any individual and allows us to ensure that content from our site is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your computer.
4. How the Information Collected is Used Personal information provided to ADvTECH by you will only be used for the purposes stated when the information is requested. We may share your information with our third-party service providers in order to provide services to you (e.g. if you purchase books through our site). Personal information will not be sold to third parties,or provided to direct marketing companies or other such organisations without your permission. We may disclose your personal information to third parties if we are under a duty to disclose or share such information in order to comply with any legal obligation or to protect the rights, property or safety of ADvTECH, its clients or others.
Demographical and statistical information about user behaviour may be collected and used to analyse the popularity and effectiveness of ADvTECH websites. Any disclosure of this information will be in aggregate form and will not identify individual users.
If you subscribe for data, news, announcements, alerts or any such information to be emailed to you from ADvTECH, we will hold your details on our database until such time as you chose to unsubscribe from this service. You may do this at any stage by selecting the appropriate option in the alerts section of this site.
5. How We Store Information Collected Data is held only as long as is necessary in terms of your authorization or as may be legally required. Information thatyou provide to us will be stored electronically as well as in hard copy format (at times), with reasonable security measures protecting such. However, we do work with third party contractors, some of whom host and operate certain features of the website. Information that we collect from you may be collected in, or transferred to, a destination outside of South Africa and/ or may be processed by staff operating outside South Africa who work for us or for one of our contractors. By submitting personal information, you agree to this transfer, storing and processing. We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this Online Privacy Policy.
6. Quality and Protection of your Information We make every effort to keep the personal information we hold updated, complete and accurate. It is your duty to provide ADvTECH with your most up to date personal information and you can do so in the following ways: contact@advtech.co.za or 0116768000. ADvTECH strives to ensure the security of personal information we hold by taking reasonable measures to prevent destruction, unlawful access and loss of personal information. Any compromise of data integrity or confidentiality will be reported to you by written notice.
Please contact us by phone, or email if you:
 Require access to any of your personal information we have on our database; or  Wish to notify us of any change, modification or correction; or  Would like to have your personal information removed from our records.
We will require suitable proof of identity from you before we can action any of the above requests.
7. How We Use "Cookies" In so far as our web pages use `cookies'... A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device, if you agree. These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and also allows us to improve our website.
Page 2 of 3

For more detailed information on the cookies we use on ADvTECH's sites and the purposes for which we use them, please see our Cookie Statement. Please refer to individual subsidiaries' sites for further information about the use of cookies on their specific sites. 8. Access to Information The Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000 gives you the right to access information held about you. For further information about this right and how to exercise it, please see ADvTECH's PAIA Manual. ADvTECH's subsidiaries may have dedicated PAIA Manuals that are accessible on their specific websites. Should you be a client of a specific subsidiary or a registered user of its site, please refer to that subsidiary's PAIA Manual. 9. Changes to our Online Privacy Policy Any changes we may make to our Privacy Policy in the future will be posted on this page. 10. Contact Any queries or concerns about privacy on this website should be sent by email to contact@advtech.co.za
Page 3 of 3

