DATA PROTECTION POLICY 2018 In accordance with GDPR regulations
THIS POLICY APPLIES TO THE TRUST BOARD, ALL TRUST SCHOOLS AND THE HOPE TEACHER TRAINING PARTNERSHIP
Document Management: Date Policy Created: March 2018 Date Policy Approved: 23 May 2018 Date Amended: Next Review Date: April 2019 Version: 2.0 Approving Body: Full Trust Board

Contents:
Statement of intent................................................................................................................................. 2 Legal framework ............................................................................................................................. 3 Applicable data ............................................................................................................................... 3 Principles ......................................................................................................................................... 4 Accountability ................................................................................................................................. 4 Data Protection officer (DPO) ......................................................................................................... 5 Lawful processing............................................................................................................................ 6 Consent ........................................................................................................................................... 7 The right to be informed................................................................................................................. 7 The right of access .......................................................................................................................... 8 The right to rectification ............................................................................................................. 9 The right to erasure .................................................................................................................. 10 The right to restrict processing ................................................................................................. 11 The right to data portability......................................................................................................11 The right to object.....................................................................................................................12 Automated decision making and profiling................................................................................13 Privacy by design and privacy impact assessments .................................................................. 14 Data breaches ........................................................................................................................... 15 Data security ............................................................................................................................. 15 Publication of information ........................................................................................................ 17 CCTV and Photography ............................................................................................................. 19 Data retention...........................................................................................................................19 DBS data .................................................................................................................................... 19 Policy review ............................................................................................................................. 20
APPENDIX A ­ Data Retention Schedule ......................................................................................................21 APPENDIX B - Data Protection Representatives ........................................................................................43
1 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

Statement of intent
Hope Learning Trust York is required to keep and process certain information about its staff members and pupils in accordance with its legal obligations under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
For the purposes of this document, the "Trust" refers to the Hope Central Team, the Trust Board, Trust Members, All Trust Schools, and the Hope Teacher Training Partnership (Ebor Teaching Schools Alliance).
The Trust may, from time to time, be required to share personal information about its staff or pupils with other organisations, mainly the Local Authorities, DfE, other schools and educational bodies, and potentially children's services.
This policy is in place to ensure all staff, governors and Trustees are aware of their responsibilities and outlines how the Trust complies with the following core principles of the GDPR.
Organisational methods for keeping data secure are imperative, and Hope Learning Trust York believes that it is good practice to keep clear practical policies, backed up by written procedures.
This policy complies with the requirements set out in the GDPR, which will come into effect on 25 May 2018. The government have confirmed that the UK's decision to leave the EU will not affect the commencement of the GDPR.

Signed by:
HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

Chief Executive Officer Date:

Chair of Trustees

Date:

2

Legal framework
1.1. This policy has due regard to legislation, including, but not limited to the following:
· The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
· The Data Protection Bill 2017
· The Freedom of Information Act 2000 · The Education (Pupil Information) (England) Regulations 2005 (as amended in
2016) · The Freedom of Information and Data Protection (Appropriate Limit and Fees)
Regulations 2004 · The School Standards and Framework Act 1998
1.2. This policy will also have regard to the following guidance:
· Information Commissioner's Office (2017) `Overview of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)'
· Information Commissioner's Office (2017) `Preparing for the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 12 steps to take now'
1.3. This policy will be implemented in conjunction with the following other Trust/Academy documents:
· HLTY Photography and Videos at School Policy · HTLY E-Security Policy
· HLTY Freedom of Information Policy
· HLTY CCTV (Model) Policy ­ Individual Academies'
· HLTY Data Retention Schedule (Appendix A)
Applicable data
2.1. For the purpose of this policy, personal data refers to information that relates to an identifiable, living individual, including information such as an online identifier, e.g. an IP address. The GDPR applies to both automated personal data and to manual filing systems, where personal data is accessible according to specific criteria, as well as to chronologically ordered data and pseudonymised data, e.g. key-coded.
2.2. Sensitive personal data is referred to in the GDPR as `special categories of personal data', which are broadly the same as those in the Data Protection Act (DPA) 1998.
3 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

These specifically include the processing of genetic data, biometric data and data concerning health matters.
Principles
3.1. In accordance with the requirements outlined in the GDPR, personal data will be:
· Processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to individuals.
· Collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes; further processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered to be incompatible with the initial purposes.
· Adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.
· Accurate and, where necessary, kept up-to-date; every reasonable step must be taken to ensure that personal data that are inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without delay.
· Kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed; personal data may be stored for longer periods, insofar as the personal data will be processed solely for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, subject to implementation of the appropriate technical and organisational measures required by the GDPR in order to safeguard the rights and freedoms of individuals.
· Processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or organisational measures.
3.2. The GDPR also requires that "the controller shall be responsible for, and able to demonstrate, compliance with the principles".
Accountability
4.1. Hope Learning Trust York will implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to demonstrate that data is processed in line with the principles set out in the GDPR.
4.2. The Trust will provide comprehensive, clear and transparent privacy policies.
4.3. Additional internal records of the Trust's processing activities will be maintained and kept up-to-date.
4 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

4.4. Internal records of processing activities will include the following:
· Name and details of the organisation · Purpose(s) of the processing · Description of the categories of individuals and personal data · Retention schedules · Categories of recipients of personal data · Description of technical and organisational security measures · Details of transfers to third countries, including documentation of the transfer
mechanism safeguards in place 4.5. The Trust will implement measures that meet the principles of data protection by
design and data protection by default, such as:
· Data minimisation. · Pseudonymisation. · Transparency. · Allowing individuals to monitor processing. · Continuously creating and improving security features. 4.6. Data protection impact assessments will be used, where appropriate.
Data Protection officer (DPO)
5.1. A DPO will be appointed in order to:
· Inform and advise the Trust and its employees about their obligations to comply with the GDPR and other data protection laws.
· Monitor the Trust's and all of its schools' compliance with the GDPR and other laws, including managing internal data protection activities, advising on data protection impact assessments, conducting internal audits, and providing the required training to staff members.
5.2. An existing employee will be appointed to the role of DPO provided that their duties are compatible with the duties of the DPO and do not lead to a conflict of interests.
5.3. The individual appointed as DPO will have professional experience and knowledge of data protection law, particularly that in relation to schools.
5.4. The DPO will report to the highest level of management in the Trust, which is the Trust Board.
5 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

5.5. The DPO will operate independently and will not be dismissed or penalised for performing their task.
5.6. Sufficient resources will be provided to the DPO to enable them to meet their GDPR obligations.
Lawful processing
6.1. The legal basis for processing data will be identified and documented prior to data being processed.
6.2. Under the GDPR, data will be lawfully processed under the following conditions:
· The consent of the data subject has been obtained.
· Processing is necessary for:
-- Compliance with a legal obligation. -- The performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the
exercise of official authority vested in the controller. -- For the performance of a contract with the data subject or to take steps to
enter into a contract. -- Protecting the vital interests of a data subject or another person. -- For the purposes of legitimate interests pursued by the controller or a third
party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests, rights or freedoms of the data subject. (This condition is not available to processing undertaken by the Trust in the performance of its tasks.)
6.3. Sensitive data will only be processed under the following conditions:
· Explicit consent of the data subject, unless reliance on consent is prohibited by EU or Member State law.
· Processing carried out by a not-for-profit body with a political, philosophical, religious or trade union aim provided the processing relates only to members or former members (or those who have regular contact with it in connection with those purposes) and provided there is no disclosure to a third party without consent.
· Processing relates to personal data manifestly made public by the data subject.
· Processing is necessary for:
-- Carrying out obligations under employment, social security or social protection law, or a collective agreement.
-- Protecting the vital interests of a data subject or another individual where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent.
-- The establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims or where courts are acting in their judicial capacity.
6 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

-- Reasons of substantial public interest based on Union or Member State law which is proportionate to the aim pursued and which contains appropriate safeguards.
-- The purposes of preventative or occupational medicine, for assessing the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or social care or treatment or management of health or social care systems and services based on Union or Member State law or a contract with a health professional.
-- Reasons of public interest in the area of public health, such as protecting against serious cross-border threats to health or ensuring high standards of healthcare and of medicinal products or medical devices.
-- Archiving purposes in the public interest, or scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1).
Consent
7.1. Consent must be a positive indication. It cannot be inferred from silence, inactivity or pre-ticked boxes.
7.2. Consent will only be accepted where it is freely given, specific, informed and an unambiguous indication of the individual's wishes.
7.3. Where consent is given, a record will be kept documenting how and when consent was given.
7.4. The Trust ensures that consent mechanisms meet the standards of the GDPR. Where the standard of consent cannot be met, an alternative legal basis for processing the data must be found, or the processing must cease.
7.5. Consent accepted under the DPA will be reviewed to ensure it meets the standards of the GDPR; however, acceptable consent obtained under the DPA will not be reobtained.
7.6. Consent can be withdrawn by the individual at any time.
7.7. Where a child is under the age of 16 years, the consent of parents will be sought prior to the processing of their data, except where the processing is related to preventative or counselling services offered directly to a child.
The right to be informed
8.1. The privacy notice supplied to individuals regarding the processing of their personal data will be written in clear, plain language which is concise, transparent, easily accessible and free of charge.
8.2. If services are offered directly to a child, the Trust will ensure that the privacy notice is written in a clear, plain manner that the child will understand.
7 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

8.3. In relation to data obtained both directly from the data subject and not obtained directly from the data subject, the following information will be supplied within the privacy notice:
· The identity and contact details of the controller (and where applicable, the controller's representative) and the DPO.
· The purpose of, and the legal basis for, processing the data. · The legitimate interests of the controller or third party. · Any recipient or categories of recipients of the personal data. · Details of transfers to third countries and the safeguards in place. · The existence of the data subject's rights, including the right to:
-- Withdraw consent at any time. -- Lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority. · The existence of automated decision making, including profiling, how decisions are made, the significance of the process and the consequences. 8.4. Where data is obtained directly from the data subject, information regarding whether the provision of personal data is part of a statutory or contractual requirement, as well as any possible consequences of failing to provide the personal data, will be provided.
8.5. Where data is not obtained directly from the data subject, information regarding the categories of personal data that the Trust holds, the source that the personal data originates from and whether it came from publicly accessible sources, will be provided.
8.6. For data obtained directly from the data subject, this information will be supplied at the time the data is obtained.
8.7. In relation to data that is not obtained directly from the data subject, this information will be supplied:
· Within one month of having obtained the data. · If disclosure to another recipient is envisaged, at the latest, before the data are
disclosed. · If the data are used to communicate with the individual, at the latest, when the
first communication takes place.
The right of access
9.1. Individuals have the right to obtain confirmation that their data is being processed.
8 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

9.2. Individuals have the right to submit a subject access request (SAR) to gain access to their personal data in order to verify the lawfulness of the processing.
9.3. The Trust will verify the identity of the person making the request before any information is supplied.
9.4. A copy of the information will be supplied to the individual free of charge; however, the Trust may impose a `reasonable fee' to comply with requests for further copies of the same information.
9.5. Where a SAR has been made verbally, the individual will be required to put the request in writing (an email will suffice).
9.6. Where a SAR has been made electronically, the information will be provided in a commonly used electronic format.
9.7. Where a request is manifestly unfounded, excessive or repetitive, a reasonable fee will be charged.
9.8. All fees will be based on the administrative cost of providing the information.
9.9. All requests will be responded to without delay and at the latest, within one month of receipt.
9.10. In the event of numerous or complex requests, the period of compliance will be extended by a further two months. The individual will be informed of this extension and will receive an explanation of why the extension is necessary, within one month of the receipt of the request.
9.11. Where a request is manifestly unfounded or excessive, the Trust holds the right to refuse to respond to the request. The individual will be informed of this decision and the reasoning behind it, as well as their right to complain to the supervisory authority and to a judicial remedy, within one month of the refusal.
9.12. In the event that a large quantity of information is being processed about an individual, the Trust will ask the individual to specify the information the request is in relation to.
The right to rectification
10.1. Individuals are entitled to have any inaccurate or incomplete personal data rectified.
10.2. Where the personal data in question has been disclosed to third parties, the Trust will inform them of the rectification where possible.
10.3. Where appropriate, the Trust will inform the individual about the third parties that the data has been disclosed to.
9 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

10.4. Requests for rectification will be responded to within one month; this will be extended by two months where the request for rectification is complex.
10.5. Where no action is being taken in response to a request for rectification, the Trust will explain the reason for this to the individual and will inform them of their right to complain to the supervisory authority and to a judicial remedy.
The right to erasure
11.1. Individuals hold the right to request the deletion or removal of personal data where there is no compelling reason for its continued processing.
11.2. Individuals have the right to erasure in the following circumstances:
· Where the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purpose for which it was originally collected/processed
· When the individual withdraws their consent · When the individual objects to the processing and there is no overriding
legitimate interest for continuing the processing · The personal data was unlawfully processed · The personal data is required to be erased in order to comply with a legal
obligation · The personal data is processed in relation to the offer of information society
services to a child 11.3. The Trust has the right to refuse a request for erasure where the personal data is
being processed for the following reasons:
· To exercise the right of freedom of expression and information · To comply with a legal obligation for the performance of a public interest task
or exercise of official authority · For public health purposes in the public interest · For archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific research, historical
research or statistical purposes · The exercise or defence of legal claims 11.4. As a child may not fully understand the risks involved in the processing of data when
consent is obtained, special attention will be given to existing situations where a child has given consent to processing and they later request erasure of the data, regardless of age at the time of the request.
10 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

11.5. Where personal data has been disclosed to third parties, they will be informed about the erasure of the personal data, unless it is impossible or involves disproportionate effort to do so.
11.6. Where personal data has been made public within an online environment, the Trust will inform other organisations who process the personal data to erase links to and copies of the personal data in question.
The right to restrict processing
12.1. Individuals have the right to block or suppress the Trust's processing of personal data.
12.2. In the event that processing is restricted, the Trust will store the personal data, but not further process it, guaranteeing that just enough information about the individual has been retained to ensure that the restriction is respected in future.
12.3. The Trust will restrict the processing of personal data in the following circumstances:
· Where an individual contests the accuracy of the personal data, processing will be restricted until the Trust has verified the accuracy of the data
· Where an individual has objected to the processing and the Trust is considering whether their legitimate grounds override those of the individual
· Where processing is unlawful and the individual opposes erasure and requests restriction instead
· Where the Trust no longer needs the personal data but the individual requires the data to establish, exercise or defend a legal claim
12.4. If the personal data in question has been disclosed to third parties, the Trust will inform them about the restriction on the processing of the personal data, unless it is impossible or involves disproportionate effort to do so.
12.5. The Trust will inform individuals when a restriction on processing has been lifted.
The right to data portability
13.1. Individuals have the right to obtain and reuse their personal data for their own purposes across different services.
13.2. Personal data can be easily moved, copied or transferred from one IT environment to another in a safe and secure manner, without hindrance to usability.
13.3. The right to data portability only applies in the following cases:
· To personal data that an individual has provided to a controller · Where the processing is based on the individual's consent or for the
performance of a contract
11 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

· When processing is carried out by automated means
13.4. Personal data will be provided in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable form.

13.5. The Trust will provide the information free of charge.

13.6. Where feasible, data will be transmitted directly to another organisation at the request of the individual.

13.7. The Trust is not required to adopt or maintain processing systems which are technically compatible with other organisations.

13.8. In the event that the personal data concerns more than one individual, the Trust will consider whether providing the information would prejudice the rights of any other individual.

13.9. The Trust will respond to any requests for portability within one month.

13.10.

Where the request is complex, or a number of requests have been received,

the timeframe can be extended by two months, ensuring that the individual is

informed of the extension and the reasoning behind it within one month of the

receipt of the request.

13.11.

Where no action is being taken in response to a request, the Trust will,

without delay and at the latest within one month, explain to the individual the reason

for this and will inform them of their right to complain to the supervisory authority

and to a judicial remedy.

The right to object
14.1. The Trust will inform individuals of their right to object at the first point of communication, and this information will be outlined in the privacy notice and explicitly brought to the attention of the data subject, ensuring that it is presented clearly and separately from any other information.
14.2. Individuals have the right to object to the following:
· Processing based on legitimate interests or the performance of a task in the public interest
· Direct marketing
· Processing for purposes of scientific or historical research and statistics. 14.3. Where personal data is processed for the performance of a legal task or legitimate
interests:
· An individual's grounds for objecting must relate to his or her particular situation.
12 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

· The Trust will stop processing the individual's personal data unless the processing is for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims, or, where the Trust can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for the processing, which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the individual.
14.4. Where personal data is processed for direct marketing purposes:
· The Trust will stop processing personal data for direct marketing purposes as soon as an objection is received.
· The Trust cannot refuse an individual's objection regarding data that is being processed for direct marketing purposes.
14.5. Where personal data is processed for research purposes:
· The individual must have grounds relating to their particular situation in order to exercise their right to object.
· Where the processing of personal data is necessary for the performance of a public interest task, the Trust is not required to comply with an objection to the processing of the data.
14.6. Where the processing activity is outlined above, but is carried out online, the Trust will offer a method for individuals to object online.
Automated decision making and profiling
15.1. Individuals have the right not to be subject to a decision when:
· It is based on automated processing, e.g. profiling. · It produces a legal effect or a similarly significant effect on the individual. 15.2. The Trust will take steps to ensure that individuals are able to obtain human
intervention, express their point of view, and obtain an explanation of the decision and challenge it.
15.3. When automatically processing personal data for profiling purposes, the Trust will ensure that the appropriate safeguards are in place, including:
· Ensuring processing is fair and transparent by providing meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the predicted impact.
· Using appropriate mathematical or statistical procedures. · Implementing appropriate technical and organisational measures to enable
inaccuracies to be corrected and minimise the risk of errors. · Securing personal data in a way that is proportionate to the risk to the interests
and rights of the individual and prevents discriminatory effects.
13 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

15.4. Automated decisions must not concern a child or be based on the processing of sensitive data, unless:
· The Trust has the explicit consent of the individual. · The processing is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest based on
Union/Member State law.
Privacy by design and privacy impact assessments
16.1. The Trust will act in accordance with the GDPR by adopting a privacy by design approach and implementing technical and organisational measures which demonstrate how the Trust has considered and integrated data protection into processing activities.
16.2. Data protection impact assessments (DPIAs) will be used to identify the most effective method of complying with the Trust's data protection obligations and meeting individuals' expectations of privacy.
16.3. DPIAs will allow the Trust to identify and resolve problems at an early stage, thus reducing associated costs and preventing damage from being caused to the Trust's reputation which might otherwise occur.
16.4. A DPIA will be carried out when using new technologies or when the processing is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals.
16.5. A DPIA will be used for more than one project, where necessary.
16.6. High risk processing includes, but is not limited to, the following:
· Systematic and extensive processing activities, such as profiling · Large scale processing of special categories of data or personal data which is in
relation to criminal convictions or offences · The use of CCTV. 16.7. The Trust will ensure that all DPIAs include the following information:
· A description of the processing operations and the purposes · An assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing in relation
to the purpose · An outline of the risks to individuals · The measures implemented in order to address risk 16.8. Where a DPIA indicates high risk data processing, the Trust will consult the ICO to
seek its opinion as to whether the processing operation complies with the GDPR.
14 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

Data breaches

17.1. The term `personal data breach' refers to a breach of security which has led to the destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data.

17.2. The Headteacher/Principal will ensure that all staff members are made aware of, and understand, what constitutes a data breach as part of their CPD training.

17.3. Where a breach is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, the relevant supervisory authority will be informed.

17.4. All notifiable breaches will be reported to the relevant supervisory authority within 72 hours of the Trust becoming aware of it.

17.5. The risk of the breach having a detrimental effect on the individual, and the need to notify the relevant supervisory authority, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.

17.6. In the event that a breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of an individual, the Trust will notify those concerned directly.

17.7. A `high risk' breach means that the threshold for notifying the individual is higher than that for notifying the relevant supervisory authority.

17.8. In the event that a breach is sufficiently serious, the public will be notified without undue delay.

17.9. Effective and robust breach detection, investigation and internal reporting procedures are in place at the Trust, which facilitate decision-making in relation to whether the relevant supervisory authority or the public need to be notified.

17.10.

Within a breach notification, the following information will be outlined:

· The nature of the personal data breach, including the categories and approximate number of individuals and records concerned

· The name and contact details of the DPO

· An explanation of the likely consequences of the personal data breach

· A description of the proposed measures to be taken to deal with the personal data breach

· Where appropriate, a description of the measures taken to mitigate any possible adverse effects

17.11.

Failure to report a breach when required to do so may result in a fine, as well

as a fine for the breach itself.

Data security

15 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

18.1. Confidential paper records will be kept in a locked filing cabinet, drawer or safe, with restricted access.

18.2. Confidential paper records will not be left unattended or in clear view anywhere with general access.

18.3. Digital data is coded, encrypted or password-protected, both on a local hard drive and on a network drive that is regularly backed up off-site.

18.4. Where data is saved on removable storage or a portable device, the device will be kept in a locked filing cabinet, drawer or safe when not in use.

18.5. Memory sticks will not be used to hold personal information unless they are password-protected and fully encrypted.

18.6. All electronic devices are password-protected to protect the information on the device in case of theft.

18.7. Where possible, the Trust enables electronic devices to allow the remote blocking or deletion of data in case of theft.

18.8. Staff may NOT use personal (i.e. owned by the member of staff) laptops, smartphones, computers, tablets, hard drives or other devices for Trust purposes, including accessing school or Trust email accounts and downloading documents. Use of personal devices for school/Trust purposes outside of school premises is also prohibited.

18.9. Governors, Trustees and Members who use personal devices for Trust purposes to access school or Trust email accounts agree to download or print documents only as necessary; any hard copies of Trust documents must be brought to the Hope Offices for secure disposal once no longer required. Electronic copies must be securely deleted from any private device including any metadata relating to the document. Emails containing personal data will be deleted once no longer required for the initial purpose.

18.10.

All necessary members of staff, Governors and Trustees are provided with

their own secure login and password, and every computer regularly prompts users to

change their password.

18.11.

All necessary Governors, Trustees and Members will be given access to

relevant school or Trust documents via secure remote access; these documents must

be downloaded or printed only as necessary; any hard copies of these documents

must be brought to the relevant school/Hope Offices for secure disposal. Electronic

copies must be securely deleted from any private device including any metadata

relating to the document.

18.12.

Emails containing sensitive or confidential information are password-

protected if there are unsecure servers between the sender and the recipient.

16 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

18.13.

Circular emails to parents are sent blind carbon copy (bcc), so email addresses

are not disclosed to other recipients.

18.14.

When sending confidential information by fax, staff will always check that the

recipient is correct before sending.

18.15.

Where personal information that could be considered private or confidential

is taken off the premises, either in electronic or paper format, staff will take extra

care to follow the same procedures for security, e.g. keeping devices under lock and

key. The person taking the information from the school premises accepts full

responsibility for the security of the data.

18.16.

Before sharing data, all staff members will ensure:

· They are allowed to share it.

· That adequate security is in place to protect it.

· Who will receive the data has been outlined in a privacy notice.

18.17.

Under no circumstances are visitors allowed access to confidential or personal

information. Visitors to areas of the Trust containing sensitive information are

supervised at all times.

18.18.

The physical security of the Trust's buildings and storage systems, and access

to them, is reviewed on a termly basis. If an increased risk in

vandalism/burglary/theft is identified, extra measures to secure data storage will be

put in place.

18.19.

Hope Learning Trust York takes its duties under the GDPR seriously and any

unauthorised disclosure may result in disciplinary action.

18.20.

The designated individual is responsible for continuity and recovery

measures are in place to ensure the security of protected data. Named members of

staff at each establishment are provided in Appendix B.

Publication of information
19.1. Hope Learning Trust York publishes on its website information that will be made routinely available, including:
· Policies and procedures · Minutes of meetings · Annual reports · Financial information 19.2. Classes of information specified in the publication scheme are made available quickly
and easily on request.
17 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

19.3. Hope Learning Trust York will not publish any personal information, including photos, on its website without the permission of the affected individual, or a parent/guardian if the individual is a child.
19.4. When uploading information to the school website, staff are considerate of any metadata or deletions which could be accessed in documents and images on the site.
18 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

CCTV and Photography
20.1. The Trust understands that recording images of identifiable individuals constitutes as processing personal information, so it is done in line with data protection principles, as outlined in each Trust school's CCTV Policy.
20.2. The Trust notifies all pupils, staff and visitors of the purpose for collecting CCTV images via notice boards, letters and email.
20.3. Cameras are only placed where they do not intrude on anyone's privacy and are necessary to fulfil their purpose.
20.4. All CCTV footage will be kept for three days for security purposes; the Operations Director is responsible for keeping the records secure and allowing access.
20.5. The Trust will always indicate its intentions for taking photographs of pupils and will retrieve permission before publishing them.
20.6. If the Trust wishes to use images/video footage of pupils in a publication, such as the school website, prospectus, or recordings of school plays, written permission will be sought for the particular usage from the parent of the pupil.
20.7. Precautions, as outlined in the Photography and Videos at School Policy, are taken when publishing photographs of pupils, in print, video or on the school website.
20.8. Images captured by individuals for recreational/personal purposes, and videos made by parents for family use, are exempt from the GDPR.
Data retention
21.1. Data will not be kept for longer than is necessary.
21.2. Unrequired data will be deleted as soon as practicable.
21.3. Some educational records relating to former pupils or employees of the Trust may be kept for an extended period for legal reasons, but also to enable the provision of references or academic transcripts.
21.4. Paper documents will be shredded or pulped, and electronic memories scrubbed clean or destroyed, once the data should no longer be retained.
21.5. Data Retention periods are outlined in the Data Retention Schedule (Appendix A).
DBS data
22.1. All data provided by the DBS will be handled in line with data protection legislation; this includes electronic communication.
19 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

22.2. Data provided by the DBS will never be duplicated. 22.3. Any third parties who access DBS information will be made aware of the data
protection legislation, as well as their responsibilities as a data handler.
Policy review
23.1. This policy is reviewed annually by the Data Protection Officer and the Operations Director.
The next scheduled review date for this policy is April 2019
20 HLTY Data Protection Policy 2018

1 Child Protection

Appendix A Data Retention Schedule

Basic File Description
Child Protection files
Allegation of a child protection nature against a member of staff, including where the allegation is unfounded

Data Prot Issues Yes
Yes

Statutory Provisions

Retention Period

Education Act 2002, s175, related guidance "Safeguarding Children in Education" September 2004
"Keeping children safe in Education Statutory guidance for schools and colleges March 2015" "Working together to safeguard children. A guide to inter-agency working to safeguard and promote the welfare of children March 2015. Employment Practices Code: Supplementary Guidance 2.13.1 (Records of Disciplinary Grievance) Education Act 2002 guidance "Dealing with Allegations of Abuse against Teachers and Other Staff" November 2005.

DOB + 25 years To be advised ­ 50 years after pupil leaves school/academy Until the person's normal retirement age, or 10 years from the date of the allegation whichever is the longer. Note allegations that are found to be malicious should be removed from personnel files.

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL These records must be shredded.

21

2 Governors
GOVERNORS Basic File Description
2.1 Minutes 2.2 Principal Set (signed)
2.3 Inspection copies 1

Data Prot Issues

Statutory Provisions

Yes

Yes

2.4 Agendas

No

2.5 Reports Presented to the

Yes

Governing body

2.6 Annual Parents' meeting papers

No

2.7 Instruments of Government incl No Articles of Association

2.8 Trusts and Endowments managed No by governing body

2.9 Action Plans

No

Education Act 2002, Section 33

Retention Period

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record

PERMANENT
Date of meeting + 3years
Once copy retained with master of minutes. All other copies: Date of Meeting Date of Report + 6 years. If minutes refer directly to individual report, said reports must be kept permanently Date of meeting + 6 years (min) PERMANENT
PERMANENT
Date of Action Plan + 3 years

If school unable to store these, they should be offered to County Archives Service. SECURE DISPOSAL (If these minutes contain any sensitive personal information they should be shredded) SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL or retain with signed set of minutes
SECURE DISPOSAL
Retain in school whilst school is open, then offered to County Archives Retain in school whilst operationally required then offered to County Archives SECURE DISPOSAL

22

GOVERNORS Basic File Description
2.10 Policy Documents 2.11 Complaints Files

Data Prot Issues No

Statutory Provisions

Yes

2.10 Annual reports required by the

No

Department for Education

2.11 Proposals for change of status of a No maintained school including Specialist status schools and academies Governor personal details: Name, Yes address, date of birth
2. Trustees personal details, name, Yes address and date of birth

Education (Governors' Annual Reports) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2002 SI2002 No 1171

3.

Retention Period Life of Policy + 3 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Date of Resolution of complaint + 6 years (min) Review for further retention in the case of contentious disputes

SECURE DISPOSAL routine complaints

Date of report + 10 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

Date proposal accepted or declined + 3 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

Retained by Companies house on statutory register Date of appointment + 20 years

ARCHIVED

1 These are copies which the clerk to governors may wish to retain so that requestors can view all the appropriate information without the clerk needing to print off and collate redacted copies of the minutes each time a request is made.

23

3 Management

MANAGEMENT Basic File Description
Log Books

Data Prot Issues Yes

Statutory Provisions

Minutes of the Senior

Yes

Management team and other

internal administrative bodies

Reports made by the head teacher Yes

or the management team

Records created by head teachers, Yes

deputy head teachers, heads of

year and other members of staff

with administrative responsibilities

Correspondence created by head Yes

teachers deputy head teachers,

heads of year and other members

of staff with administrative

responsibilities

Professional Development Plans Yes

School Development plans

No

All records relating to the creation No

and implementation of School

Admissions policy

Admissions ­ If the admission is

Yes

successful

School Admissions Code Dec 2014 School Admissions Code Dec 2014

Retention Period
Date of last entry in the book + 6 years Date of Meeting + 3 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record Could be offered to County Archives Service if appropriate SECURE DISPOSAL

Date of report + 3 years
Current academic year + 6 years the review

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

Date of correspondence + 3 SECURE DISPOSAL years then review

Life of the plan + 6 years Life of the Plan + 3 Years Life of the Policy + 3 years then review
Admission + 1 year

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

24

MANAGEMENT Basic File Description
Admission ­ if the appeal is unsuccessful Register of Admission

Data Prot Issues Yes

Statutory Provisions School Admissions Code Dec 2014

Yes School Attendance: Departmental Advice Oct 2014 (p.6)

Admissions ­ Secondary Schools Yes

Casual

Proofs of address supplied by

Yes

parents as part of the admissions

process

Supplementary information form Yes

including additional information

such as religion, medical conditions

etc.

· For successful admissions Yes

· For unsuccessful

Yes

admissions

School Admissions Code Dec 2014

Retention Period Resolution of case + 1 year

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Every entry in the admission register must be preserved for a period of three years after the date on which the entry was made.
Current Year + 1 year

REVIEW Schools may wish to consider keeping admission register permanently as often schools receive enquiries from past pupils to confirm the dates they attended the school SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 1 year

SECURE DISPOSAL

Information should be added to pupil file Until Appeals process completed

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

25

4 Pupils
PUPILS Basic File Description
Admissions Registers
Attendance registers

Correspondence relating to authorised absence Pupil files retained in Schools

4.4.1

· Primary

4.4.2

· Secondary
Special Educational Needs Files, reviews and IEPs

Data Prot Issues Yes

Statutory Provisions

Yes School Attendance: Departmental advice for maintained schools, academies, independent schools and local authorities Oct 2014
Yes Education Act 1996 Section 7
Yes The Education (Pupil Information) Regulations 2005 SI 2005 No 1437

Limitation Act 1980

Retention Period
Date of last entry in the book (or file) + 6 yrs Date of entry + 3 years
Current academic year + 2 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record Retain in school for 6 years from date of last entry then consider transfer to Archives SECURE DISPOSAL (If these records are retained electronically any back up copies should be destroyed at the same time) SECURE DISPOSAL

Retain for the time which the pupil remains at the Primary School
DOB of the pupil + 25 years 1

Transfer to secondary school or other primary school when the child leaves the school. In the case of exclusion it may be appropriate to transfer the record to the Pupil Referral Unit SECURE DISPOSAL

Yes Limitation Act 1980 (Section 2)

DOB of the Pupil + 25 years min (recommendation is from date of leaving the school/academy, files should be retained for 70 years)

REVIEW Note: This retention period is the minimum; some authorities choose to keep SEN files for a longer period

26

PUPILS Basic File Description

Data Prot Issues

Statutory Provisions

4Correspondence relating to

No

. Authorised Absence and Issues

6

4Examination results

Yes

.

7

Retention Period Date of absence + 2years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record of time to defend themselves in a `failure to provide a sufficient education' case. There is an element of business risk analysis involved in any decision to keep the records longer than the minimum retention period and this should be documented. SECURE DISPOSAL

27

PUPILS Basic File Description

· Public 4.7.1 4

.

7

a

· Internal examination

4.7.2 4

results

.

7

b

4Any other records created in the . course of contact with pupils 8

Child protection information held on pupil file

Child protection information held in separate files

Data Prot Issues Yes
Yes
Yes Yes
Yes

Statutory Provisions

Retention Period Added to pupil file

Added to pupil file

Current year + 3 years

"Keeping children safe in Education Statutory guidance for schools and colleges March 2015" "Working together to safeguard children. A guide to inter-agency working to safeguard and promote the welfare of children March 2015. "Keeping children safe in Education Statutory guidance for schools and colleges March 2015" "Working together to safeguard children. A guide to inter-agency working to safeguard and promote

If any records relating to child protection issues are placed on the pupil file, it should be in a sealed envelope and then retained for the same period of time as the pupil file
DOB of the child + 25 years then review. This retention period was agreed in consultation with the Safeguarding Children Group on the understanding that

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record All uncollected certificates should be returned to the examination board
SECURE DISPOSAL
Review at the end of 3 years and either allocate a further retention period or SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL ­ These records MUST be shredded
SECURE DISPOSAL ­ These records MUST be shredded

28

PUPILS Basic File Description

Data Prot Issues

Statutory Provisions
the welfare of children March 2015.

4Statement maintained under The Yes

. Education Act 1996 ­ Section 234

9and any amendments made to

statement

4Advice and information to

Yes

. parents regarding educational

1needs

1

4Accessibility Strategy

Yes

.

1

2

4Parental consent forms for school Yes . trips ­ where there has been no 1major incident 3

4Parental consent forms for school Yes . trips ­ where there has been no 1major incident 4

Education Act 1996 Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001 Section 1 Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001 Section 2
Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001 Section 14
Limitation Act 1980 (Section 2)

Retention Period
the principal copy of this information will be found on the LA Social Services Record DOB + 25 years (This would normally be retained on the pupil file)

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record
SECURE DISPOSAL unless legal action is pending

Date of birth of the Pupil + 25 years (This would normally be retained on the pupil file)
DOB + 25 years (This would normally be retained on the pupil file)

SECURE DISPOSAL unless legal action is pending
SECURE DISPOSAL unless legal action is pending

Conclusion of the trip

SECURE DISPOSAL

DOB of the pupil involved in the incident + 25 years The Permission slips for all pupils on the trip need to be retained to show that the rules had been followed for all pupils

SECURE DISPOSAL

29

PUPILS

Basic File Description

Data Statutory Provisions

Retention Period

Action at the end of the

Prot

administrative life of the

Issues

record

4Records created by schools to

No

Outdoor Education Advisers' Panel Date of visit + 14 years 3

SECURE DISPOSAL

. obtain approval to run an

National Guidance website

1Educational Visit outside the

http://oeapng.info specifically

5classroom ­ Primary Schools

Section 3 ­ " Legal Framework and

Employer Systems" and Section 4 ­

"Good Practice"

4Records created by schools to

No

Outdoor Education Advisers' Panel Date of visit + 10 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

. obtain approval to run an

National Guidance website

1Educational Visit outside the

http://oeapng.info specifically

6Classroom ­ Secondary Schools

Section 3 ­ " Legal Framework and

Employer Systems" and Section 4 ­

"Good Practice"

4Walking Bus registers

Yes

Date of register + 3 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

.

This takes into account the (If these records are retained

1

fact that if there is an

electronically any back up

7

incident requiring an

copies should be destroyed

accident report the register at the same time)

will be submitted with the

accident report and kept for

the period of time required

for accident reporting.

2 If these records are retained on the pupil file or in their National Record of Achievement they need only be kept for as long as operationally necessary.

3This retention period has been set in agreement with Safeguarding Children's Officer.

30

5 Curriculum
CURRICULUM Basic File Description
School Development Plan Curriculum returns Schemes of work Timetable Class record books Mark Books Record of homework set Pupils' work Examination results SATS records

Data Prot Issues No No No No No No No No No Yes

Statutory Provisions

Retention Period
Current year + 6 years Current year + 3 years Current year + 1 year Current year + 1 year Current year + 1 year Current year + 1 year Current year + 1 year Current year + 1 year Current year + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL
It may be appropriate to review these records at the end of each year and allocate a further retention period or SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

31

CURRICULUM Basic File Description

5.10.1

· SATS results

Data Prot Issues Yes

Statutory Provisions

· Examination papers

Yes

5.10.2

PAN reports

Yes

Value Added & Contextual Data Yes

Self Evaluation forms

Yes

Retention Period
SATs results should be recorded on the pupil's educational file and will therefore be retained until the pupil reaches the age of 25 years. The school may wish to keep a composite record of all the whole year SATs results. These could be kept for current year + 6 years to allow suitable comparison. The examination papers should be kept until any appeals/validation process is complete. Current year + 6 years
Current year + 6 years
Current year + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

32

6 Personnel Records

PERSONNEL RECORDS Basic File Description
All records leading up to the appointment of a new headteacher All records leading up to the appointment of a new member of staff ­ unsuccessful candidates All records leading up to the appointment of a new member of staff ­ successful candidate

Data Prot Issues Yes
Yes
Yes

Interview notes and recruitment Yes

notes

Pre-employment vetting

Yes

information (including DBS

checks)

Proofs of identity collected as

Yes

part of the process of checking

`portable' enhanced CRB

disclosure

Statutory Provisions
DBS Update Service Employer Guide June 2014: Keeping children safe in education. July 2015 (Statutory guidance from DfE) Sections 73, 74

Retention Period
Date of appointment + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Date of appointment of successful candidate + 6 months All relevant information should be added to personal file (see below) and all other information retained for 6 months Date of interview + 6 months

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

The school does not have to keep copies of DBS certificates. If the school does so, the copy must NOT be retained for more than 6 months Where possible these should be checked and a note kept of what was seen and what has been checked. If it is felt necessary to keep copy documentation, then this should be placed on the

SECURE DISPOSAL (by designated member of staff)
SECURE DISPOSAL

33

PERSONNEL RECORDS Basic File Description
Pre-employment vetting information ­ Evidence proving the right to work in the United Kingdom 4
Timesheets, sick pay Staff Personal files Disciplinary proceedings

Data Prot Issues

Statutory Provisions

Yes An Employer's Guide to Right to Work Checks (Home Office May 2015)

Yes Financial regulations
Yes Limitation Act 1980 (Section 2)
Yes Where the warning relates to a child protection issue see 1.2 and see safeguarding children officer for further advice

Retention Period
staff's personal file?? Passport copies kept? ? Where possible these documents should be added to the Staff personnel File (see below) but if they are kept separately then the home office requires that the documents are kept for termination of Employment plus not less than two years Current year + 6 years
Termination + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record
SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

34

PERSONNEL RECORDS Basic File Description

6.10.1 6.10.2
6.10.3
6.10.4 6.10.5

· Oral warning
· Written warning ­ level one
· Written warning ­ level two
· Final warning
· Case not found

Records relating to accident/injury at work

Annual appraisal/assessment records Salary cards?
Maternity pay records
Records held under Retirement Benefits Schemes (information powers) regulations 1995

Data Prot Issues Yes

Statutory Provisions

Yes

Yes

Retention Period Date of warning + 6 months

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record

Date of warning + 6 months Date of warning + 12 months

SECURE DISPOSAL If warnings are placed on a personal file they must be weeded from the file

Yes

Date of warning + 18 months

Yes

If child protection related SECURE DISPOSAL

see 1.2 otherwise SECURE immediately at the

DISPOSAL

conclusion of the case

Yes

Date of incident + 12 years SECURE DISPOSAL

In the case of serious

accidents, a further

retention period will need to

be applied

Yes

Current year + 5 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

Yes

Date of last employment + SECURE DISPOSAL

85 years

Yes Statutory Maternity Pay (General) Current year + 3 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

Regulations 1986 (SI 1986/1960)

revised 1999 (SI 1999/567)

Yes

Current year + 6 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

35

7 Health and Safety

HEALTH AND SAFETY Basic File Description
Policy statements Risk Assessments Records relating to accident/injury at work (Also see Personnel Records above)

Data Prot Issues No
Yes
Yes

Accident Reporting

Yes

7.4.1

· Adults

7.4.2

· Children

Control of Substances Hazardous to No Health (COSHH)

Process of monitoring of areas

No

where employees and persons are

likely to have become in contact

with asbestos

Statutory Provisions
Social Security (Claims and Payments) regulations 1979 Regulation 25. Social Security Administration Act 1992 Section 8. Limitation Act 1980

Retention Period Date of expiry + 1 year

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 3 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

Date of incident + 12 years In the case of serious accidents, a further retention period will need to be applied

SECURE DISPOSAL

Date of the incident + 6 years DOB of child + 25 years

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations 2002. SI 2002 No 2677 Regulation 11; Records kept under the 1994 and 1999 Regulations to be kept as if the 2002 Regulations had not been made. Regulation 18 (2) Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations 2012 SI 1012 No 632 Regulation 19

Current year + 40 years Last action + 40 years

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

36

HEALTH AND SAFETY Basic File Description
Process of monitoring of areas where employees and persons are likely to have come into contact with radiation Fire Precautions log books Workplace Inspections

Data Prot Issues No
No No

Statutory Provisions

8 Administrative
ADMINISTRATIVE Basic File Description
Employer's Liability Insurance certificate Inventories of equipment and furniture General file series

Data Prot Issues No

Statutory Provisions

No

No

School brochure or prospectus

No

Circulars (Staff/parents/pupils)

No

Newsletters, etc.

No

Visitors' book/Signing in Sheetss Yes

PTA/Old Pupils Associations

No

Retention Period Last action + 50 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 6 years Current year + 3 years

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

Retention Period Closure of school + 40 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 6 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 5 years then review
Current year + 3 years Current year + 1 year Current year + 1 year Current year + 6 years then review Current year + 6 years

Review to see whether a further retention period is required STANDARD DISPOSAL STANDARD DISPOSAL STANDARD DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

37

9 Finance

FINANCE Basic File Description
Annual accounts

Data Prot Issues No

Statutory Provisions

Loans and Grants

No

All records relating to the

No

creation and management of

budgets including the Annual

Budget statement and

background papers

Invoices, receipts, order books, No

requisitions and delivery notices

Records relating to the collection No

and banking of monies

Debtors' Records

Financial Regulations Limitation Act 1980

Contracts

9.7.1 9.7.2 9.7.3

· Under seal

No

· Under signature

No

· Records relating to the No monitoring of contracts

School fund ­ cheque books

No

Limitation Act 1980 Limitation Act 1980

Retention Period Current year + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record STANDARD DISPOSAL

Date of last payment on loan SECURE DISPOSAL + 12 years Life of the budget + 3 years SECURE DISPOSAL

Current financial year + 6 years Current financial year + 6 years Current financial year + 6 years
Last payment on the contract + 12 years Last payment on the contract + 6 years Current year + 2 years

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 6 years

SECURE DISPOSAL

38

FINANCE Basic File Description
School Fund ­ Paying in books School Fund ­ Ledger School Fund ­ Invoices School Fund ­ Receipts School fund ­ Bank statements School Fund ­ school journey books Student Grant applications Free School Meals Registers School Meal Registers School Meal summary sheets Petty cash books

Data Prot Issues No
No
No
No
No
No

Statutory Provisions

Yes Yes Yes No No

10 Property
PROPERTY Basic File Description
Title Deeds

Data Prot Issues No

Statutory Provisions

Retention Period
Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years
Current + 3 years Current year + 6 Current + 3 years Current + 3 years Current + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL

Retention Period
PERMANENT these should follow the property unless the property has been registered at the Land Registry

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record PERMANENT

39

PROPERTY Basic File Description
Plans of property
Maintenance and contractors Leases Lettings Burglary, theft and vandalism report forms Maintenance Log books Contractors' reports
11 Local Authority
LOCAL AUTHORITY Basic File Description
Secondary transfer sheets (Primary) Attendance returns Circulars from LEA

Data Prot Issues No

Statutory Provisions

No

Financial Regulations

No

Data Prot Issues Yes

Statutory Provisions

Yes

Retention Period
Permanent Current Year + 6 years Expiry of lease + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years Current year + 6 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record Retain in school whilst operational SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

Retention Period Current year + 2 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL

Current year + 1 year

SECURE DISPOSAL

Whilst required operationally Review to see whether a further retention period is required

40

12 Department for Children, Schools and Families

DEPARTMENT FOR CHILDREN, SCHOOLS AND FAMILIES

Basic File Description

Data Statutory Provisions

Prot

Issues

HMI reports

OFSTED reports and papers

DfE? Ofsted?

Returns
Circulars from Department for Children, schools and families

13 Contracts/Service Level Agreements

CONTRACTS/SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS

Basic File Description

Data

Prot

Issues

Service level agreements

Work experience agreement

Statutory Provisions

Retention Period
Do not need to be kept any longer Replace former report with any new inspection report
Current Year + 6 years Whilst operationally required

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record
Review to see whether a further retention period is required SECURE DISPOSAL
Review to see whether a further retention period is required

Retention Period
Until superseded DOB of child + 18 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAl

41

14 School Meals
SCHOOL MEALS Basic File Description
Dinner Register School Meals Summary Sheets

Data Prot Issues

Statutory Provisions

15 Family Liaison Officers and Home School Liaison Assistants

Family Liaison Officers and Home school Liaison Assistants

Basic File Description

Data Statutory Provisions

Prot

Issues

Day Books

Yes

Reports for outside agencies ­

Yes

where the report has been

included on the case file created by

the outside agency

Referral forms

Yes

Contact data sheets

Yes

Contact database entries

Yes

Group Registers

Yes

Retention Period
Current year + 3 years Current year + 3 years

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

Retention Period
Current year + 2 years then review Whilst the child is attending the school, then destroy

Action at the end of the administrative life of the record SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL

Whilst the referral is current
Current year, then review ­ if contact is no longer active then destroy Current year, then review ­ if contact is no longer active then destroy Current year + 2 years

SECURE DISPOSAL SECURE DISPOSAL
SECURE DISPOSAL (DELETE INCLUDING ALL BACKUPS) SECURE DISPOSAL

42

APPENDIX B ­ Data Protection Nominated Representatives
The nominated representatives in each Hope Learning Trust York school, with contact details are listed below.

Hope Learning Trust

Wendy Munro (DPO) 01904 560053

Manor Church of England Academy

Carol Rowbotham 01904 798722

Vale of York Academy

Vanessa Smallwood 01904 560000

Barlby High School

Vanessa Smallwood 01757 706161

Poppleton Ousebank Primary School

Judy Sandilands

01904 795930

Forest of Galtres Anglican Methodist Primary School Holly Newby

01904 470272

Burton Green Primary School

Sarah Brownhill

01904 552380

43

