DATA PRIVACY NOTICE

The Parochial Church Council (PCC) of St Margaret's, Oxford

1. Your personal data ­ what is it? Personal data relates to a living individual who can be identified from that data. Identification can be by the information alone or in conjunction with any other information in the data controller's possession or likely to come into such possession. The processing of personal data is governed by the General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR").

2. Who are we? The PCC of St Margaret's, Oxford is the data controller (contact details below). This means it decides how your personal data is processed and for what purposes.

3. How do we process your personal data? The PCC of St Margaret's, Oxford complies with its obligations under the "GDPR" by keeping personal data up to date; by storing and destroying it securely; by not collecting or retaining excessive amounts of data; by protecting personal data from loss, misuse, unauthorised access and disclosure and by ensuring that appropriate technical measures are in place to protect personal data.

We use your personal data for the following purposes: -



To enable us to provide a voluntary service for the benefit of the public in a particular

geographical area as specified in our constitution;



To administer membership records;



To fundraise and promote the interests of the charity;



To manage our employees and volunteers;



To maintain our own accounts and records (including the processing of gift aid

applications);

 To inform you of news, events, activities and services running at St Margaret's;



To share your contact details with the Diocesan office so they can keep you informed

about news in the diocese and events, activities and services that will be occurring in

the diocese and in which you may be interested.

4. What is the legal basis for processing your personal data?  Explicit consent of the data subject so that we can keep you informed about news, events,
activities and services and process your gift aid donations and keep you informed about diocesan events.  Processing is necessary for carrying out obligations under employment, social security or social protection law, or a collective agreement;  Processing is carried out by a not-for-profit body with a political, philosophical, religious or trade union aim provided: -
o the processing relates only to members or former members (or those who have regular contact with it in connection with those purposes); and
o there is no disclosure to a third party without consent.

5. Sharing your personal data Your personal data will be treated as strictly confidential and will only be shared with other members of the church in order to carry out a service to other church members or for purposes connected with the church. We will only share your data with third parties outside of the parish with your consent.

6. How long do we keep your personal data1? We keep data in accordance with the guidance set out in the guide "Keep or Bin: Care of Your Parish Records" which is available from the Church of England website [see footnote for link].
Specifically, we retain electoral roll data while it is still current; gift aid declarations and associated paperwork for up to 6 years after the calendar year to which they relate; and parish registers (baptisms, marriages, funerals) permanently.
7. Your rights and your personal data Unless subject to an exemption under the GDPR, you have the following rights with respect to your personal data: -
 The right to request a copy of your personal data which the PCC of St Margaret's, Oxford n holds about you;
 The right to request that the PCC of St Margaret's, Oxford corrects any personal data if it is found to be inaccurate or out of date;
 The right to request your personal data is erased where it is no longer necessary for the PCC of St Margaret's, Oxford to retain such data;
 The right to withdraw your consent to the processing at any time  The right to request that the data controller provide the data subject with his/her
personal data and where possible, to transmit that data directly to another data controller, (known as the right to data portability), (where applicable) [Only applies where the processing is based on consent or is necessary for the performance of a contract with the data subject and in either case the data controller processes the data by automated means].  The right, where there is a dispute in relation to the accuracy or processing of your personal data, to request a restriction is placed on further processing;  The right to object to the processing of personal data, (where applicable) [Only applies where processing is based on legitimate interests (or the performance of a task in the public interest/exercise of official authority); direct marketing and processing for the purposes of scientific/historical research and statistics]  The right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office.
8. Further processing If we wish to use your personal data for a new purpose, not covered by this Data Protection Notice, then we will provide you with a new notice explaining this new use prior to commencing the processing and setting out the relevant purposes and processing conditions. Where and whenever necessary, we will seek your prior consent to the new processing.
9. Contact Details
To exercise all relevant rights, queries of complaints please in the first instance contact the PCC Secretary at pccsecretary@stmargaretsoxford.org.
You can contact the Information Commissioners Office on 0303 123 1113 or via email https://ico.org.uk/global/contact-us/email/ or at the Information Commissioner's Office, Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire. SK9 5AF.
1 Details about retention periods can currently be found in the Record Management Guides located on the Church of England website at: - https://www.churchofengland.org/aboutus/structure/churchcommissioners/administration/librariesandarchives/recordsmanagementguides.aspx

