Privacy Policy Thalys
June 2018

At Thalys1 we respect your privacy. We are committed to protecting and processing your personal data in strict compliance with data protection, and in full transparency. Take a minute to familiarise yourself with our commitments to the protection of your personal data. If you want to know more about the use and protection of your data, we invite you to read our Privacy Policy Thalys below.
Our commitments to protecting your privacy
We use your data to provide you with a unique train travel experience in Europe.
We need to collect and store your data, such as your name, email address, and trip details. We share your data with our trusted partners to provide you with better quality services.
We use the data you share with us and our distributors to provide you with your travel tickets, to let you know if there are changes to your trips, or to provide you with other information about your itinerary.
And by listening to what you - our customers - tell us, we can provide you with new and better services - online and on our trains.
We use your data to provide you with services that suit you better.
We analyse the travel data of our passengers to develop innovative and generous sales offers to suit all the profiles of our passengers: leisure passengers and professionals, young people, seniors, families and groups.
If you choose to receive marketing emails from Thalys this gives you the opportunity to be the first to know about our promotions, our service proposals, our contests for winning trips, gifts, and more, and our partners' sales offers. Please note that in this case, your data will not be shared with these partners.
You have control of your data.
If you no longer wish to receive marketing offers from us, you can view and change your preferences at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of each email.
If you want to obtain more information about the data we have about you or if you want to exercise your rights of rectification, portability, erasure of your data and your rights to object and limit processing, simply contact our Customer Service by clicking here2, selecting "Request for information" and choosing "GDPR / My Data" from the drop down menu.
Security is a priority for us.
Collecting, processing, storing and sharing your data securely is a priority. To provide you with our products and services, we share your data with our service providers and make every effort to ensure that they are just as careful when processing your data.

1This Privacy Policy represents the policy adopted and followed by THI Factory and Thalys International. 2 https://thalys.secure.force.com/?language=en&country=be&form=complaint

Thalys Privacy Policy

1/10

Privacy Policy Thalys
he purpose of this Privacy Policy is to inform you, in the most clear and concise way possible, how we process your personal data when you use our website. (Thalys.com) and/or Thalys services and products. It explains: 1. Who is "responsible for processing"? Who is the "DPO" and preferred contact person? Who is concerned ? 2. What data do we collect? 3. For what purposes and on what legal basis is your data processed? 4. How do we protect your data? 5. Who is your data transferred to? 6. How is your payment data managed? 7. What are your rights and how can you exercise them? 8. Where can you make a complaint about the processing of your data by Thalys? 9. How long do we keep your data? 10. How do we use cookies? 11. How can you stay informed about changes to this Privacy Policy?
1. Who is "responsible for processing"? Who is the "DPO" and preferred contact person? Who is concerned?
"THI Factory"3 and "Thalys International"4 (hereinafter "Thalys") are responsible for processing your personal data available to them. This means that we, Thalys, determine the purposes and means of processing of this data and that we are your interlocutor and that of the supervisory authorities (the Belgian Data Protection Authority and the other European supervisory authorities) for any questions relating to its use. We designated a Data Protection Officer or "DPO") as a single point of contact within our company with the following details: Data Protection Officer data.protection@thalys.com
Our Privacy Policy applies to all individuals whose personal data is processed, whether you are a simple user of the website or a customer (with or without a Thalys account). On the other hand, legal persons do not fall under the scope of this notice.

3The company "THI Factory" is a SA with headquarters at 4, Place Marcel Broodthaers - 1060 Brussels, Belgium and registered in the Register of Legal Persons of Brussels, under the VAT number BE 0541.696.005. 4The company "Thalys International" is an SCRL with headquarters at 4 Place Marcel Broodthaers - Brussels, Belgium and is registered in the Register of Legal Entities of Brussels, under the VAT business number BE 0455.370.557.

Thalys Privacy Policy

2/10

2. What data do we collect?
Your personal data (hereinafter "your data") is data that allows your identification either directly (data such as your name and surname allows your immediate identification), or indirectly (data such as your postal code, your phone number or your contract number allows your identification indirectly).
During our interactions with you, we may have to collect different data depending on the types of products / services concerned:
· Identification data (surname, first name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, etc.) · Demographic data (such as gender, language, age) · Professional data · Special features of the passenger · Lifestyle and consumption of goods and services · Recording of images and sounds · Your purchase history and your financial information, such as your credit/debit card number or other billing
information (only to make a refund) · Online ID and password · Identifier of your trip ("PNR" or "Passenger Name Record") · Business profile (preferred products and services, preferred modes of communication, etc.) · Geolocation data, including your IP address or physical location only when you request geolocation-based
services · Information relating to navigation and behaviour on our website (depending on the pages viewed, the
products viewed, searches performed, etc.)
In certain circumstances, we may also have to process particular categories of data, including data on passengers with reduced mobility and data on minors. We treat this data with special care.
a) Data of passengers with reduced mobility
If you are a passenger with reduced mobility, we are likely to process some of your data as part of the execution of your transport contract, to provide you with a seat adapted to your situation as a person with reduced mobility, as well as with assistance in boarding the train.
The processing of this data will be done only with your explicit prior consent and for the purposes to which you have consented. Access to this data is limited to those who need it for the performance of their tasks in relation to the above purpose.
b) Data of minors (Kids Connection)
We are likely to process data of a minor (age 4 to 14) as part of our "Kids Connection" programme, to provide for the presence of a professional attendant for the entire trip of this minor who would be travelling alone.
In addition to the identification data of the minor, Thalys collects the identification data of the people who bring and pick up the minor at the station (including their identity card numbers), to verify their identity.

Thalys Privacy Policy

3/10

3. For what purposes and on what legal basis is your data processed?
We process your data for various purposes. For each type of processing, only the data relevant to achieving the purpose in question is processed. The processing consists of any operation (manual or automated) on any personal data.
A. General Information
In general, we use your data:
· when we have your consent.
In this case, we process your data only for the purposes to which you have agreed, specified on the consent form on our website.
In particular, when concluding contracts with Thalys, you can explicitly consent via an opt-in to receiving communications from Thalys and/or Thalys partners (without transferring data to these partners). If you accept it, Thalys will electronically send you newsletters containing commercial information about new services and products, promotions and benefits, the opportunity to participate in quizzes. etc.
If you do not wish to receive our Newsletters, you can withdraw your consent at any time via the link integrated directly into the Newsletter. You can find more information about this under the point Withdrawing your consent
· As part of the execution of your contract or for the actions taken in order to conclude the contract, to:
o Allow you to purchase a trip (purchases or bookings from the Thalys.com website and on the sites of our distributors5) or other products/services offered by Thalys
o Provide and track the products or services purchased o Manage your complaints and guarantee you quality after-sales service o Be able to deal with your question, message or request and to respond to it o Check the validity of your ticket o Provide you with information about your trip (text message if your train is delayed, or other
information about your itinerary, such as the cancellation of your train) o Make a refund, if applicable o Enable you to create a Thalys customer account and access your order history and your data for
managing your account o Give you access to our image database o Allow you to access our Wifi on board our trains.
We need to collect some of your data to execute your contract. If you choose not to share this data with us, it may render the performance of the contract impossible.
· to comply with all legal and regulatory obligations to which we are subject, including:
o prevention and detection of terrorist offences and other serious forms of crime; o implementation of legislation (such as the GDPR); o tax and accounting obligations of Thalys.

5 In the rail context, a "distributor" refers to the entity that will take care of the sale of tickets to passengers.

Thalys Privacy Policy

4/10

· for purposes that are in our legitimate interest, in which case we seek to preserve a proportionate balance between our legitimate interest and respect for your privacy. In this context, your data can be processed in order to:
o Protect Thalys property o Prevent abuse and fraud o Disclose any abuse that may or may seriously prejudice the financial status, results and/or reputation
of Thalys o Control the regularity of our operations o Maintain safety on board and near our trains o Exercise, defend and preserve our rights, for example during litigation, as well as to compile the proof
of a possible violation of our rights o Sanction certain irregularities (no valid ticket) through payment of a fine o Manage and improve our relationship with you o Continuously improve our website and our products/services (in particular by conducting satisfaction
surveys and analysing data collected via cookies) o Conduct market research on our products/services or to develop new products/services o Adjust our products and services that are available to you and adapt them to your needs, in particular
by offering tailored services that could interest you based on the customer profile created for you o Analyse data, establish sales and sales activity reports, frequency of visits and establish marketing
profiles o Analyse whether you are eligible for our Thalys Inside programme (based on your number of trips
purchased)
B. Specifics related to the Chatbot
When you use our "chatbot"6 on our website, your data is processed in order to:
- To answer your questions in an automated manner - To manage your refund and compensation requests (in this case, we use your PNR and the date of your
trip) - To process your complaint (in this case, we use your credentials and your e-mail address) - To improve our "chatbot" (self-learning tool)
It is in our legitimate interest to offer you an efficient and quick way to contact us and to manage your requests and complaints.
Please note that to use our "chatbot", we only need to collect your PNR to answer your questions and manage your refund requests, and your credentials and e-mail address to process your complaint. If you communicate unsolicited data to our chatbot, you agree with the use of this data to improve our chatbot (machine-learning tool).
C. Specifics related to " Abandoned Cart" Emails
We send you "Abandoned Cart" e-mails. This means that when you have started the process of ordering a trip without completing the purchase ("abandon cart"), we will contact you to remind you to complete your order.
In this context, we use your e-mail address to send you a reminder e-mail inviting you to finalise the order that was started, if you have given us your details using the ordering tool.

6A "chatbot" is a virtual conversational agent using artificial intelligence to interact with a human being on a messaging system.

Thalys Privacy Policy

5/10

It is in our legitimate interest to contact you to help you finalise your order. The e-mail reminder is sent to you on the same day of the unsuccessful order, except in exceptional cases involving technical problems. The retention period of your e-mail before deletion is 7 days maximum.
D. Profiling
To better meet your needs and expectations, and offer you the best services and the most suitable rates: · We determine general or specific customer profiles, including: o The type of passenger you are o Your profile, which is a summary of the information you have shared with us, and/or the products/services you have used · We examine the overview of the products and services you have purchased · We measure your (sub) optimal use of a product or service.
It is in our legitimate interest to do this profiling to improve your customer experience. We reassure you that this profiling is not intended for automated decision making with negative consequences for you.
4. How do we protect your data?
Thalys is committed to maintaining the confidentiality and security of your data and to implementing appropriate security measures to prevent the loss, destruction, misuse, unintentional modification or disclosure of your data:
· By updating security measures as the technology evolves, as needed · By ensuring that your data are not accessible to unauthorised persons · By requesting a proof of identity before being able to provide you with any personal information about you
as part of the security procedures · By performing periodic back-ups and storing this data on secure servers; · By deleting or anonymising your data at the end of the legal or contractual period or if Thalys does not
need it any more for the for the purposes for which the personal data was collected.
5. Who is your data transferred to?
Thalys undertakes not to sell or rent your data to third parties. In order to provide certain services and products, Thalys may communicate your data to third parties and to its processors.

Thalys Privacy Policy

6/10

A. Third parties
If we are obliged to do so by virtue of a contractual or legal obligation or if a legitimate interest justifies it, Thalys may transfer some of your data to third parties, inter alia, for the following purposes:
· To Thalys partners (for example, hotels, car rental companies, carriers 7) for the management and execution of your travel contract or transport contract.
· To the competent authorities, in the context of legal proceedings.
These third parties act as "data controllers" when performing this data processing. We draw your attention to the fact that these third parties have a privacy policy that may deviate from ours. For more information about this processing, we also refer you to the applicable privacy policy of these third parties.
B. Processors on behalf of Thalys
To manage our company and help us provide you with certain products and services (for example: running our website, conducting satisfaction surveys, etc.), we use specialised partners who act as processors and are related contractually to us. They must then follow our instructions and respect the confidentiality of the data received on behalf of Thalys and may under no circumstances use them for any purpose other than the performance of services on behalf of Thalys.
Thalys ensures that these subcontractors:
· Only have data that are necessary for the performance of their tasks and, · undertake, vis-à-vis Thalys, to treat this data in a secure and confidential manner and to use them only for
the performance of their tasks.
C. Transfers abroad
Exceptionally, in the context of certain processing activities, data may be transferred to processors located outside the European Economic Area.
In this case, in accordance with the legislation in force, we take care to increase the level of security required in the contracts to be concluded with our subcontractors, to guarantee an adequate protection of your data.
If you wish, you can obtain a copy of the adapted contractual clauses by contacting our DPO: data.protection@thalys.com.

6. How is your payment data managed?
All the financial transactions that you make on the Thalys website with your means of payment are made on a secure server ('Secure Server Technology') which allows:
· Authentication that verifies your identity and ensures secure browsing and access to your data · Encryption that ensures the confidentiality of your data by modifying it so that it cannot be read by others · Data integrity that controls whether the transferred data has been tampered with.

7 In the railway context, carrier refers individually and collectively to the railway undertakings that operate the Thalys transport service and with which the transport contract is concluded.

Thalys Privacy Policy

7/10

Payment is made via the payment system of our distributors. In this case, your payment-related financial data is managed by our distributors and stored at the distributors.

7. What are your rights and how can you exercise them?
In accordance with the law, you have a right of access, a right of rectification, a right of erasure and a right to portability of your data. In certain cases, you also have the right to object to or restrict its processing.
These rights are free and can be exercised at any time.
A. General rights
- Right of access: You have the right to access the data concerning you and to receive a copy.
- Right of rectification: We take all reasonable steps to ensure that the data we hold is up-to-date and to delete data that is incorrect or no longer required for processing. We encourage you to access your account (if applicable) from time to time to view your data to ensure it is up to date. If you find that your data is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to ask us to correct it.
- Right to erasure ("right to be forgotten"): in certain circumstances (for example when you withdraw your consent or when the processed data is no longer necessary for the purpose of the processing), you have the right to ask us to delete your data.
- Right to restrict the processing: you may request the limitation of the processing of your data, in which case your data will no longer be processed (but will be retained).
- Right to data portability: you have the right to the data you have provided being transmitted to you in a structured format, or being transmitted directly by Thalys to another controller.
- Right of opposition:
· When the processing of your data is based on a legitimate interest, you have the right to object to it at any time. However, be aware that in this case, Thalys has the right to present you with its legitimate reasons justifying the continuation of processing.
· You always have the right to object, at any time and without charge, to the processing of your data in the context of direct marketing and no exception can be opposed by Thalys. It also includes the right to object to profiling as it relates to direct marketing.

B. Withdrawing your consent
When the processing by Thalys is based on your consent, you can withdraw it at any time. This withdrawal will not affect the legality of the processing of your data during the period preceding your withdrawal of consent.
In the context of direct marketing, this means that you can unsubscribe at any time from newsletters and other Thalys commercial communications. You will be put in "opt-out". You can unsubscribe by contacting Customer Service by clicking here8, selecting "Request for information" and choosing "GDPR / My Data" from the drop down menu or by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of each email. You can also unsubscribe via your Thalys account.

8 https://thalys.secure.force.com/?language=en&country=be&form=complaint
Thalys Privacy Policy

8/10

However, please note that when you exercise your right to object to the sending of direct marketing, this only applies to the given e-mail address. If you receive commercial mailings on several e-mail addresses, the unsubscription procedure must be repeated as many times as necessary, either via "my Thalys account" (if applicable) or via the "unsubscribe" link in each e-mail. If you unsubscribe by post, you will need to specify the email addresses you want to disable.
C. Who can you contact?
To exercise your rights, simply contact our Customer Service by clicking here9, selecting "Request for information" and choosing "GDPR / My Data" from the drop down menu.
When you send us an application relating to your rights, please provide us with your full contact details (name, surname, e-mail(s), full postal address) and please attach copy of the front of your identification document to prevent abuse and to ensure the security of your data.
8. Where can you make a complaint about the processing of your data by Thalys?
If you believe that there is a violation of the privacy legislation, you have the right to lodge a complaint about the processing of your data with the Data Protection Authority, whose contact details are as follows:
Autorité de Protection des Données Rue de la Presse 35 1000 Brussels Tel: +32 2 274 48 00 E-mail: commission@privacycommission.be
9. How long do we keep your data?
When your data is collected based on your consent, we use it only until you withdraw your consent. From the withdrawal of your consent, your data will be kept for the minimum amount of time necessary to accomplish the necessary technical measures to delete or anonymise your data.
When your data is used to provide you with our services (e.g. management of your trip, responding to your questions and requests, etc.), this data is kept for a reasonable period limited to the accomplishment of the objective pursued during its collection, including for the minimum amount of time necessary to perform the technical measures necessary to delete or anonymise your data.
In any case, your data is kept for the statutory limitation period or any other period of retention that would be required by law.
10. How do we use cookies?
Regardless of whether you are a customer or a simple visitor to the site, when you use our website, we place "cookies" on your computer. A "cookie" is a small file sent by our server to the hard disk of your computer, tablet or smartphone that identifies your navigation device and collects certain personal data.
We use different types of cookies:

9 https://thalys.secure.force.com/?language=en&country=be&form=complaint
Thalys Privacy Policy

9/10

- "Strictly necessary cookies and functional cookies": for instance, they allow us to identify your country and the language you prefer to use, to make the use of our site as simple and pleasant as possible;
- "Performance cookies": they allow us to collect traffic statistics from our site to make it more user-friendly and to offer content better suited to your needs;
- "Commercial cookies": they allow us to propose offers to you that are tailored to your interests. However, this type of "cookie" will only be installed on your computer if you have consented.
You may refuse to install "cookies" on your computer, but such a refusal may result in decreased functionality or slow-down, or may even prevent access to certain services on the site.
For more information on "cookies", we invite you to read our specific "Cookie Policy".
11. How can you stay informed about changes to this Privacy Policy?
In a changing world where technologies are constantly evolving, we draw your attention to the fact that this Privacy Policy is subject to change. We therefore invite you to regularly consult the latest online version of this Policy and we will inform you via the website or through other usual channels of communication (for example, by e-mail) of any changes to the Privacy Policy.

Thalys Privacy Policy

10/10

