Robert Sheffield DDS, Inc.

©2013 Wisconsin Dental Association (800) 243-4675

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES
Effective Date:___________J_u_l_y_1_0_,__2_0_1_5__________

THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW MEDICAL INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED AND DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET ACCESS TO THIS INFORMATION. PLEASE REVIEW IT CAREFULLY. THE PRIVACY OF YOUR MEDICAL INFORMATION IS IMPORTANT TO US.

CONTACT INFORMATION

For more information about our privacy practices, to discuss questions or concerns, or to get additional copies of this notice, please contact our Privacy Officer.

Title: Privacy Officer

Telephone: (__9_2_5__) __7_5_7__­____9_1__0_0____

Fax: (__9_2_5__) __7_5_4__­____3_9__5_1____

Email: info@sheffieldortho.com

Address: 3428 Hillcrest Avenue, Suite 100 Antioch, CA 94531

OUR LEGAL DUTY

We are required by law to protect the privacy of your protected health information ("medical information"). We are also required to send you this notice about our privacy practices, our legal duties, and your rights concerning your medical information.
We must follow the privacy practices that are described in this notice while it is in effect. This notice takes effect on the date set forth at the top of this page, and will remain in effect unless we replace it.
We reserve the right to change our privacy practices and the terms of this notice at any time, provided such changes are permitted by applicable law. We reserve the right to make any change in our privacy practices and the new terms of our notice applicable to all medical information we maintain, including medical information we created or received before we made the change.

We may amend the terms of this notice at any time. If we make a material change to our policy practices, we will provide to you the revised notice. Any revised notice will be effective for all health information that we maintain. The effective date of a revised notice will be noted. A copy of the current notice in effect will be available in our facility and on our website if applicable. You may request a copy of the current notice at any time.
We collect and maintain oral, written and electronic information to administer our business and to provide products, services and information of importance to our patients. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural security safeguards in the handling and maintenance of our patients' medical information, in accordance with applicable state and federal standards, to protect against risks such as loss, destruction or misuse.

USES AND DISCLOSURES OF YOUR MEDICAL INFORMATION

Treatment: We may disclose your medical information, without your prior approval, to another dentist, a physician or other health care provider working in our facility or otherwise providing you treatment for the purpose of evaluating your health, diagnosing medical conditions, and providing treatment. For example, your health information may be disclosed to an oral surgeon to determine whether surgical intervention is needed.
Payment: We provide dental services. Your medical information may be used to seek payment from your insurance plan. For example, your insurance plan may request and receive information on dates that you received services at our facility in order to allow your employer to verify and process your insurance claim.
Health Care Operations: We may use and disclose your medical information, without your prior approval, for health care operations. Health care operations include:
· healthcare quality assessment and improvement activities; · reviewing and evaluating dental care provider performance, qualifications
and competence, health care training programs, provider accreditation, certification, licensing and credentialing activities; · c onducting or arranging for medical reviews, audits, and legal services, including fraud and abuse detection and prevention; and · b usiness planning, development, management, and general administration, including customer service, complaint resolutions and billing, de-identifying medical information, and creating limited data sets for health care operations, public health activities, and research.

any purpose. Once you give us authorization to release your medical information, we cannot guarantee that the person to whom the information is provided will not disclose the information. You may take back or "revoke" your written authorization at any time in writing, except if we have already acted based on your authorization. Your revocation will not affect any use or disclosure permitted by your authorization while it was in effect. Unless you give us a written authorization, we will not use or disclose your medical information for any purpose other than those described in this notice. We will obtain your authorization prior to using your medical information for marketing, fundraising purposes or for commercial use. Once authorized, you may opt out of any of these communications.
Family, Friends, and Others Involved in Your Care or Payment for Care: We may disclose your medical information to a family member, friend or any other person you involve in your care or payment for your health care. We will disclose only the medical information that is relevant to the person's involvement.
We may use or disclose your name, location, and general condition to notify, or to assist an appropriate public or private agency to locate and notify, a person responsible for your care in appropriate situations, such as a medical emergency or during disaster relief efforts.
We will provide you with an opportunity to object to these disclosures, unless you are not present or are incapacitated or it is an emergency or disaster relief situation. In those situations, we will use our professional judgment to determine whether disclosing your medical information is in your best interest under the circumstances.

We may disclose your medical information to another dental or medical provider or to your health plan subject to federal privacy protection laws, as long as the provider or plan has or had a relationship with you and the medical information is for that provider's or plan's health care quality assessment and improvement activities, competence and qualification evaluation and review activities, or fraud and abuse detection and prevention.
Your Authorization: You (or your legal personal representative) may give us written authorization to use your medical information or to disclose it to anyone for

Health-Related Products and Services: We may use your medical information to communicate with you about health-related products, benefits, services, payment for those products and services, and treatment alternatives.
Reminders: We may use or disclose medical information to send you reminders about your dental care, such as appointment reminders.
Plan Sponsors: If your dental insurance coverage is through an employer's sponsored group dental plan, we may share summary health information with the plan sponsor.

Form No. T302HN

© Michael Best & Friedrich, LLP

Public Health and Benefit Activities: We may use and disclose your medical information, without your permission, when required by law, and when authorized by law for the following kinds of public health and public benefit activities:
· for public health, including to report disease and vital statistics, child abuse, and adult abuse, neglect or domestic violence;
· to avert a serious and imminent threat to health or safety; · for health care oversight, such as activities of state insurance commissioners,
licensing and peer review authorities, and fraud prevention agencies; · for research; · in response to court and administrative orders and other lawful process; · to law enforcement officials with regard to crime victims and criminal
activities; · to coroners, medical examiners, funeral directors, and organ procurement
organizations; · to the military, to federal officials for lawful intelligence, counterintelligence,
and national security activities, and to correctional institutions and law enforcement regarding persons in lawful custody; and · a s authorized by state worker's compensation laws.
If a use or disclosure of health information described above in this notice is prohibited or materially limited by other laws that apply to us, it is our intent to meet the requirements of the more stringent law.

©2013 Wisconsin Dental Association (800) 243-4675
Business Associates: We may disclose your medical information to our business associates that perform functions on our behalf or provide us with services if the information is necessary for such functions or services. Our business associates are required, under contract with us, to protect the privacy of your information and are not allowed to use or disclose any information other than as specified in our contract.
Data Breach Notification Purposes: We may use your contact information to provide legally-required notices of unauthorized acquisition, access, or disclosure of your health information.
Additional Restrictions on Use and Disclosure: Certain federal and state laws may require special privacy protections that restrict the use and disclosure of certain health information, including highly confidential information about you. "Highly confidential information" may include confidential information under Federal laws governing alcohol and drug abuse information and genetic information as well as state laws that often protect the following types of information:
1. HIV/AIDS; 2. Mental health; 3. Genetic tests; 4. Alcohol and drug abuse; 5. Sexually transmitted diseases and reproductive health information; and 6. Child or adult abuse or neglect, including sexual assault.

YOUR RIGHTS

Access: You have the right to examine and to receive a copy of your medical information, with limited exceptions. We will use the format you request unless we cannot practicably do so. You should submit your request in writing to our Privacy Officer.
We may charge you reasonable, cost-based fees for a copy of your medical information, for mailing the copy to you, and for preparing any summary or explanation of your medical information you request. Contact our Privacy Officer for information about our fees.
Disclosure Accounting: You have the right to a list of instances in which we disclose your medical information for purposes other than treatment, payment, health care operations, as authorized by you, and for certain other activities.
You should submit your request to our Privacy Officer. We will provide you with information about each accountable disclosure that we made during the period for which you request the accounting, except we are not obligated to account for a disclosure that occurred more than 6 years before the date of your request.
Amendment: You have the right to request that we amend your medical information. You should submit your request in writing to our Privacy Officer.
We may deny your request only for certain reasons. If we deny your request, we will provide you a written explanation. If we deny your request, you may have a statement of your disagreement added to your medical information. If we accept your request, we will make your amendment part of your medical information and use reasonable efforts to inform others of the amendment who we know may have and rely on the unamended information to your detriment, as well as persons you want to receive the amendment.

Restriction: You have the right to request that we restrict our use or disclosure of your medical information for treatment, payment or health care operations, or with family, friends or others you identify. Except in limited circumstances, we are not required to agree to your request. But if we do agree, we will abide by our agreement, except in a medical emergency or as required or authorized by law. You should submit your request to our Privacy Officer. Except as otherwise required by law, we must agree to a restriction request if:
1. except as otherwise required by law, the disclosure is to a health plan for purposes of carrying out payment or health care operations (and not for purposes of carrying out treatment); and
2. the medical information pertains solely to a health care item or service for which the health care provider involved has been paid out of pocket in full by the patient.
Confidential Communication: You have the right to request that we communicate with you about your medical information in confidence by means or to locations that you specify. You should submit your request in writing to our Privacy Officer.
Breach Notification: You have the right to receive notice of a breach of your unsecured medical information. Breach may be delayed or not provided if so required by a law enforcement official. You may request that notice be provided by electronic mail. If you are deceased and there is a breach of your medical information, the notice will be provided to your next of kin or personal representatives if we know the identity and address of such individual(s).
Electronic Notice: If you receive this notice on our web site or by electronic mail (e-mail), you are entitled to receive this notice in written form. Please contact our Privacy Officer to obtain this notice in written form.

COMPLAINTS

If you are concerned that we may have violated your privacy rights, or you disagree with a decision we made about access to your medical information, about amending your medical information, about restricting our use or disclosure of your medical information, or about how we communicate with you about your medical information (including a breach notice communication), you may contact to our Privacy Officer.

You also may submit a written complaint to the Office for Civil Rights of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW, Room 509F, Washington, D.C. 20201. You may contact the Office for Civil Rights' Hotline at 1-800-368-1019.
We support your right to the privacy of your medical information. We will not retaliate in any way if you choose to file a complaint with us or with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

Form No. T302HN

© Michael Best & Friedrich, LLP

Privacy Policy
This privacy policy discloses the privacy practices for (http://sheffieldortho.com/). This privacy policy applies solely to information collected by this web site. It will notify you of the following:
1. What personally identifiable information is collected from you through the web site, how it is used and with whom it may be shared.
2. What choices are available to you regarding the use of your data. 3. The security procedures in place to protect the misuse of your
information. 4. How you can correct any inaccuracies in the information.
Information Collection, Use, and Sharing
We are the sole owners of the information collected on this site. We only have access to/collect information that you voluntarily give us via email or other direct contact from you. We will not sell or rent this information to anyone.
We will use your information to respond to you, regarding the reason you contacted us. We will not share your information with any third party outside of our organization, other than as necessary to fulfill your request, e.g. to ship an order.
Unless you ask us not to, we may contact you via email in the future to tell you about specials, new products or services, or changes to this privacy policy.
Your Access to and Control Over Information
You may opt out of any future contacts from us at any time. You can do the following at any time by contacting us via the email address or phone number given on our website:
· See what data we have about you, if any.
· Change/correct any data we have about you.
· Have us delete any data we have about you.
· Express any concern you have about our use of your data.
Security
We take precautions to protect your information. When you submit sensitive information via the website, your information is protected both online and offline.

Wherever we collect sensitive information (such as credit card data), that information is encrypted and transmitted to us in a secure way. You can verify this by looking for a closed lock icon at the bottom of your web browser, or looking for "https" at the beginning of the address of the web page.
While we use encryption to protect sensitive information transmitted online, we also protect your information offline. Only employees who need the information to perform a specific job (for example, billing or customer service) are granted access to personally identifiable information. The computers/servers in which we store personally identifiable information are kept in a secure environment.
Updates
Our Privacy Policy may change from time to time and all updates will be posted on this page.
Registration
In order to use this website, a user must first complete the registration form. During registration a user is required to give certain information (such as name and email address). This information is used to contact you about the products/services on our site in which you have expressed interest. At your option, you may also provide demographic information (such as gender or age) about yourself, but it is not required.
Cookies
We use "cookies" on this site. A cookie is a piece of data stored on a site visitor's hard drive to help us improve your access to our site and identify repeat visitors to our site. For instance, when we use a cookie to identify you, you would not have to log in a password more than once, thereby saving time while on our site. Cookies can also enable us to track and target the interests of our users to enhance the experience on our site. Usage of a cookie is in no way linked to any personally identifiable information on our site.
Some of our business partners may use cookies on our site (for example, advertisers). However, we have no access to or control over these cookies.
Links
This web site contains links to other sites. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the content or privacy practices of such other sites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of any other site that collects personally identifiable information.

If you feel that we are not abiding by this privacy policy, you should contact us immediately via telephone at 925.757.9100 or info@sheffieldortho.com

