FACTS

WHAT DOES BAYVANGUARD BANK DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?

Rev. 04/2015

Why?

Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you have with us. This information can include:  Social Security number and income  account balances and payment history  credit history and credit scores When you are no longer our customer, we continue to share your information as described in this notice.

How?

All financial companies need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their customers' personal information; the reasons BayVanguard Bank chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information

Does BayVanguard Bank share?

For our everyday business purposes-

such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and

Yes

legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus

For our marketing purposesto offer our products and services to you

Yes

For joint marketing with other financial companies

No

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-

information about your transactions and

No

experiences

For our affiliates' everyday business purposesinformation about your creditworthiness

No

For nonaffiliates to market to you

No

l\!t=H!Mi!f. Call 410-477-5000 or go to www.bayvanguard.com

Can you limit this sharing?
No
No We don't share We don't share We don't share We don't share

Who we are
Who is providing this BayVanguard Bank notice?

What we do
How does BayVanguard Bank protect my personal information?

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings.

How does BayVanguard Bank collect my personal information?

We collect your personal information, for example, when you  apply for a loan or open an account  deposit money or pay your bills  use your credit or debit card

Why can't I limit all sharing?
Definitions
Affiliates Nonaffiliates Joint marketing

Federal law gives you the right to limit only  sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes - information about your
creditworthiness  affiliates from using your information to market to you  sharing for nonaffiliates to market to you State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing.
Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.  BayVanguard Bank has no affiliates. Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.  BayVanguard Bank does not share with nonaffiliates so they can market to you. A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.  BayVanguard Bank doesn't jointly market.

General System Setup, Ver. 18.2.0.027 Copr. Finastra USA Corporation 1996, 2018. All Rights Reserved. - C:\J-iARLAND\CFI\PRIVDIS2.FC

