Privacy Policy
Use of Personal Information We do not collect any personal information unless you voluntarily provide it. You can provide us personal information in the course of routine school administration by sending us e-mail, participating in a survey, completing an on-line form or providing us with a hard copy. Personal information submitted will not be transferred to any non-affiliated third parties unless otherwise stated at the time of collection. When you submit personally identifiable information it is used only for the purpose stated at the time of collection.
Consent Where consent for the use and disclosure of personal information is required, the school will seek consent from the appropriate person. In the case of a student's personal information, the school will seek the consent from a parent or guardian.
Cookies
We may place a text file called a "cookie" in the browser files of your computer. The cookie itself does not contain Personal Information although it will enable us to relate your use of this site to information that you have specifically and knowingly provided. But the only personal information a cookie can contain is information you supply yourself. A cookie can't read data off your hard disk or read cookie files created by other sites. We use cookies to track user traffic patterns.
You can refuse cookies by turning them off in your browser. If you've set your browser to warn you before accepting cookies, you will receive the warning message with each cookie. You do not need to have cookies turned on to use this site. However, you do need cookies to participate actively in message boards, forums, polling and surveys.
Children
In accordance with Archdiocesan policies for creating safe environments for all minors, we will never knowingly request personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 13 without requesting parental consent.

Log Files Like most standard website servers we use website statistic packages such as Google Analytics to analyze trends in how our website is accessed and utilized. Information monitored includes internet protocol (IP) addresses, geographic location of visitors (country, city), browser type, internet service provider (ISP), referring/exit pages, platform type, date/time stamp, time spent on pages, and keywords used to find our site via search engines. This information is anonymous and cannot be directly linked to individual users. We may use it to identify high-use or low-use areas of the site, pinpoint problem areas of the site, analyze broad demographic trends in our visitors, and make decisions about how to make it easier for people to find and navigate our website.
Links This website may contain links to other sites. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. We encourage you to be aware when you leave our site to read the privacy statements of each and every Web site that collects personally identifiable information. This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by us and by this website.
Contact Information If users have any questions or suggestions regarding our privacy policy, please contact us at: St. Thomas More Elementary School, 2510 S. Fremont Avenue, Alhambra, CA 91803

