Wesley House data protection statement and privacy notice (staff)
This statement explains how Wesley House handles and uses personal data we collect about staff. Where in this statement we refer to `we' or `our' or `us' we are referring to Wesley House, Cambridge and where we refer to `you' or `your' we are referring to our staff. We are registered with the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) with registration number Z663811z. We are committed to protecting your personal information and to being transparent about what information we hold. Wesley House understands its obligations to you to help you understand how and why we process your personal data. This notice tells you about these uses and should be read in conjunction with the Wesley House data protection policy. Our data protection policy and procedures are governed by the Data Protection Act 1998 and, from 25th May 2018, the EU General Data Protection Regulation. The law in this area is changing rapidly and we anticipate this statement may be revised in line with guidance from the Information Commissioner's office.
Why we hold your personal data We are required to hold your personal data for various legal and practical purposes, without which we would be unable to employ you. Holding your personal data enables us to meet various administrative and legal obligations (eg for tax purposes). We will also process your personal information in other circumstances, provided you have given your consent for us to do so.
Lawful basis for processing personal data The lawful basis for processing the personal data of alumni and supporters as described in this document is to fulfil a contract with an individual. There is a contractual requirement for you to provide much of the information detailed. Without this we will be unable to fulfil our obligations which could result in the contract terminating. Wesley House may also store some of your personal data in accordance with other privacy notices (eg if you have been a Wesley House student or if you are a donor).
\\mother\wesley\Administration\Data Protection\WH Privacy notice - staff.docx

Personal data held by Wesley House
The information we hold about you is primarily information you provided when applying for your job, supplemented by information generated in the course of your employment.
In common with all data subjects:
 Your name  Your contact details  Unique personal identifiers and biographical information (e.g. date of birth)  photographs of you;  your attendance at Wesley House or Cambridge Theological Federation ("CTF") events;  personal data provided by you for a specific purpose or purposes (for example, disability, catering
preferences or lifestyle status for event management);  information related to the prevention and detection of crime and the safety of staff and students
including, but not limited to, CCTV recording;

Also: 



financial information gathered for the purposes of administering fees and charges, loans, grants, bursaries etc.; your visa requirements; copies of passports, visas, and other documents required to ensure compliance with Home Office requirements. Details of your education, qualifications and publications.

Particular to staff:  your application and curriculum vitae;  details of your career;  references.  your contract of employment;  performance reviews;  disciplinary, grievance and capability procedures;  accidents at work; and  training provided.

Sensitive personal data held by Wesley House
The information we hold is that which you provide to us (for example, you may give us information by filling in forms on our website, or by corresponding with us by post, telephone, email or otherwise).
Records may contain:  your religious affiliation  your ordained status

How your personal data is used by Wesley House
Your data is used by us for a number of purposes including :
All data subjects:  Publications, invitations and other communications.  e-news and flash emails.  internal reporting and record keeping.  the promotion of college events.  administrative purposes (e.g. in order to process fees payments or to administer an event you have
registered for or attended).  Responding to data access requests you make.
Also:  Giving key card access to parts of the premises.  issuing references at your request.  Inclusion on prayer lists.  the college archives.  Contacting you, your next of kin, or other relevant contact in case of an emergency.  Inclusion in the college directory  Inclusion in the college handbook  Inclusion on the website  Marketing, including images, online, in print and on social media (with your consent)
Particular to staff:  providing staff accommodation.
Communications to you may be sent by post, telephone or a work email address. Your personal mobile phone number will only be used if you have given consent.
If you have concerns or queries about any of these purposes, or how we communicate with you, please contact us at the address given below. We will always respect a request by you to stop processing your personal data, and in addition your statutory rights are set out below.

Sharing your data with others
Within Wesley House, personal data, including sensitive personal data, may be shared between members of staff, including Trustees, who legitimately need the information to carry out their normal duties to support your time with us. We endeavour to ensure that sensitive personal data is only shared with colleagues with your explicit consent. However, circumstances may arise where this data is shared with colleagues without gaining your consent. This will only occur if it is necessary to protect your vital interests or the vital interests of another person; or for certain other reasons where it is not possible or appropriate to gain your consent such as disclosures to the police for prevention or detection of crime, or to meet statutory obligations relating to equality monitoring. Wesley House may disclose certain personal data to third parties. These external organisations, and the purpose for sharing the information, are set out below.
Relevant data will be shared with the Cambridge Theological Federation and may be shared with the University of Cambridge, Anglia Ruskin University and the University of Durham depending on the requirements of your job.
Relevant data, including your bank details, will be shared with our payroll providers and may be shared with our accountants (for payment of expenses).
Relevant data may be shared with your next of kin but only with your consent or in an emergency.
Relevant data may be shared with Home Office, UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) in order to fulfil CTF's obligations as a visa sponsor.
Data may be shared with reputable "data processors" for the purposes of sending communications (eg mailchimp).
With your permission we may share information about you for publicity and marketing purposes online, in print and on social media.
Otherwise, Wesley House does not share data with any third party, except as allowed for in other privacy notices or required by law. We do not sell your personal data to third parties under any circumstances, or permit third parties to sell on the data we have shared with them.
Transfer of personal data to other countries Where data is shared within the UK, or the European Union (EU), the third party will be required to comply with and safeguard the data under the terms of the DPA and appropriate EU regulations.
Your personal information will only be transferred to countries, outside of the EU, whose data protection laws have been assessed as adequate by the European Commission, or where adequate safeguards, such as the EU-US Privacy Shield, are in place.
How long data is kept We will keep your personal data only as long as is necessary for the purpose(s) for which it was collected, and in accordance with our Data Protection Policy. Data will be securely destroyed when no longer required.

Where you exercise your right to erasure, we will continue to maintain a core set of personal data (name, dates of working at Wesley House and date of birth) to ensure we do not contact you inadvertently in future, and to maintain your record for archive purposes. We may also need to retain some financial records about you for statutory purposes (e.g. accounting matters).

Your rights

You have the following rights

To be informed Access

This Privacy Notice provides the information you are entitled to receive Please contact us if you would like confirmation that your data is being processed and access to your personal data.

Rectification

There is no charge for us providing you with this data and it will usually be provided within a month of the request (unless the request is unfounded or excessive). Please inform us of any data which you would like rectified and we will usually respond within a month of the request.

Erasure
Restrict processing

We will pass on the changes to any third parties who need to change their records and let you know this has been done. You may exercise your right to have your personal data erased in a number of circumstances (eg if the data is no longer necessary in relation to the purpose for which it was created or you withdraw your consent). Where possible we will comply with all such requests, though some details are part of the College's permanent records (eg examination results, college photographs) which can not reasonably be deleted. You can tell us that we can keep your data but must stop processing it, including preventing future mailings and communications.

Data portability to object

If possible we will inform any third parties to whom your data has been disclosed of your requirement. Your data is across manual records and a bespoke Access database. We will do our best to provide information in a portable format but it is unlikely that we can create systems to do so. If we can, we will stop processing your data if you object to processing based on legitimate interests or the performance of a task in the public interest / exercise of official authority (including profiling).

We will stop processing your data for direct marketing if you tell us to.

Not to be subject to automated decision-making including profiling

We will stop processing your data if you object to processing for purposes of research and statistics. We do not use any automated decision-making.

We reserve the right to judge what information we must continue to hold to be able

to fulfil our contract with you.
You have the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner's Office at https://ico.org.uk/concerns.
Further information
The controller for your personal data and our Data Protection Officer is the Business Director of Wesley House who can be contacted via office@wesley.cam.ac.uk or Wesley House, Jesus Lane, Cambridge, CB5 8BJ.
Our Data Protection Officer is responsible for monitoring compliance with relevant legislation in relation to the protection of personal data. Please contact us at office@wesley.cam.ac.uk if you have any concerns or questions about the above information or you wish to ask us not to process your personal data for particular purposes or to erase your data. Where you have specific requests relating to how we manage your data, we will endeavour to resolve these, but please note that there may be circumstances where we cannot comply with specific requests.
We will publish on our website any changes we make to this data protection statement and notify you by other communication channels where appropriate.
If you have any concerns about your personal data held by the Cambridge Theological Federation you will need to contact them separately by emailing general-enquiries@theofed.cam.ac.uk
October 2017

