Privacy Statement
Protecting your personal information
We collect no personal information about you unless you choose to provide that information to us. We do not use techniques that collect personal information about you without your knowledge.
How we use non-personal information
Our site's operating system may automatically record some general information about your visit, such as:
 The Internet domain for your Internet service provider, such as 'company.com' or 'service.ca' and the IP address of the computer accessing the website, such as 'ppp-55
 The type of browser (such as 'Safari version x' or 'Internet Explorer version x') you are using
 The type of operating system you are using (such as Macintosh, Unix, or Windows)  The date and time you visit our site and the web pages that you visit on our site, along
with the address of the previous website you were visiting, if you linked to us from another web site.
We use this information for statistical analysis to help us make our site more useful to users. We may disclose this non-personal information to third parties such as suppliers, clients or advertisers and/or use it for auditing purposes. This tracking system does not record personal information about individuals or link this information to any personal data collected.
We may use 'cookies' that identify you as a return visitor. A cookie is a piece of data that a website can send to your browser, which may then store the cookie on your hard drive. So, when you come back to visit us again, we can tailor information to suit your individual preferences. The goal is to save you time and provide you with a more meaningful visit and to measure website activity. Cookies do not contain any personally identifying information. Browsers allow you to disable cookie collection if you wish, or inform you when a cookie is being stored on your hard drive.
What about spam?
You will not receive marketing e-mail from Saskatchewan Mining Association unless you have consented to receive it.
From time to time we may use e-mail as a way to keep in touch with our existing customers and other interested individuals. However, we do not send 'spam' (unsolicited marketing e-mail).

If you agree to receive e-mail communications from us, every e-mail message we send you will include an e-mail address to which you can respond. If at any time you decide you do not want to receive marketing e-mail from us, simply let us know and we will remove your name and e-mail address from our marketing lists. We will do the same with your mailing address and telephone number on request.
When you leave this site
This policy discloses the privacy practices for our website. However, our site contains links to other sites. Once you link to another site, you are subject to the privacy and security policies of the new site. We encourage you to read the privacy policies of all websites you visit, especially if you share any personal information.

