PRIVACY AND COOKIE STATEMENT
CATERLINK IS COMMITTED TO PROTECTING AND RESPECTING YOUR PRIVACY.
We keep certain basic information when you visit our website or do business with us and we recognise the importance of keeping that information secure and letting you know what we will do with it. This policy sets out the basis on which we collect, store and use any personal data which we learn about you from your use of our website. Please read the following carefully to understand our views and practices regarding your personal data.
For the purpose of the Data Protection Act 1998 ("Act"), the data controller is Cater Link Limited whose registered office is TVP2, 300 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 1PT, registered in England and Wales with company number 03732298.
By continuing to browse our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. By providing any personal information to us via our website, you consent to us using that personal information in accordance with this policy.
INFORMATION WE MAY COLLECT FROM YOU
We may collect, store, use or otherwise process the following data about you:
 Information you give us. You may provide us with information by filling in forms on our website or through any manner of correspondence with us in relation to the services or goods we provide you (including a record of that correspondence or those services or goods). This includes information provided when making any enquiry in relation to our website or services; contacting us in relation to a problem with our website; and/or contacting us for any other reason.
 Information we collect about you via cookies. We may also obtain information by using a cookie file which is stored on your browser or the hard drive of your computer. Cookies help us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and also allows us to continuously improve our website.
We may use the following cookies:
o Strictly necessary cookies. These are required for the operation of our website.
o Analytical/performance cookies. These are required to recognise and count the number of visitors and to see how visitors move around our website when they are using it. The information collected may relate to your computer (e.g. IP address, location data, related website information, browser type and operating system) as well as your visit to our website (e.g. traffic patterns) but the information will generally be statistical data without connecting to you as an individual. This helps us to improve the way our website works, for example, by ensuring that users are finding what they are looking for easily and to report aggregate information to any third parties for marketing, advertising, auditing usage or other promotional purposes.
o Functionality cookies. These are required to recognise you when you return to our website. This enables us to personalise our content for you and remember your preferences (for example, your choice of language or region).

o Targeting cookies. These are required to record your visit to our website, the pages you have visited and the links you have followed. We will use this information to make our website and the advertising displayed on it more relevant to your interests. We may also share this information with third parties for this purpose.
You can delete cookies from your hard drive at any time. You can also block cookies by activating the setting on your browser (usually found in the "options" or "preferences" menu) that allows you to refuse the setting of all or some cookies. You will be able to use our website even if your browser is set to block cookies however, certain features and content may not be available to you.
For further information on cookies, you can visit www.aboutcookies.org or www.allaboutcookies.org or contact us on the details below.
USES MADE OF YOUR INFORMATION
We may use information held about you in the following ways:
 To provide you with information, products or services that you request from us or which we feel may interest you, where you have consented to be contacted for such purposes.
 To ensure that content from our website is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your computer or device.
 To carry out our obligations arising from any contracts entered into between you and us.
 To notify you about changes to our services.
 To administer our website and to ensure it is kept safe and secure.
We may also permit carefully selected third parties to use your data to provide you with information about goods and services which may be of interest to you and they may contact you about these where you have consented to be contacted for such purposes.
WHERE WE STORE YOUR PERSONAL DATA
The data that we collect from you may be transferred to, and stored at, a destination outside the European Economic Area ("EEA"). It may also be processed by staff operating outside the EEA who work for us or for one of our suppliers. To the extent applicable, such staff may be engaged in, among other things, the fulfilment of our services and the provision of support services. By submitting your personal data, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing. We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy and the Act.
DISCLOSURE OF YOUR INFORMATION
We may share your personal information with any member of our group, which means our subsidiaries, our ultimate holding company and its subsidiaries, as defined in section 1159 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
We may share your information with selected third parties including:

 Business partners, suppliers and sub-contractors for the performance of any contract we enter into with them or you (or you enter in with them through us).
 Analytics and search engine providers that assist us in the improvement and optimisation of our site.
We may disclose your personal information to third parties:
 In the event that we sell or buy any business or assets, in which case we may disclose your personal data to the prospective seller or buyer of such business or assets.
 If we are under a duty to disclose or share your personal data in order to comply with any legal obligation, or in order to enforce our terms of use, or to protect the rights, property or safety of our customers or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organisations for the purposes of fraud protection and credit risk reduction.
HOW WE WILL PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION
We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy and the Act. Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our website; any transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access.
YOUR RIGHTS
You have the right to:
 access a copy of the information which we hold about you. Any access request is subject to a fee of 10 (cheques to be made payable to Cater Link Limited) to meet our costs in providing you with details of the information we hold about you; and
 ask us to update, correct or remove any out-of-date or incorrect personal data which we hold about you. We may also ask you from time to time to correct information if we think it is no longer inaccurate.
LINKS TO OTHER WEBSITES
Our site may, from time to time, contain links to and from the websites of third parties, our partner networks, advertisers and affiliates.
When you link to a third party's websites via our website or otherwise, you will be subject to the privacy policy and the terms and conditions of that website provider. We have no control over the privacy policy or the terms of any third party websites so please check each carefully before continuing to access the website or providing any personal data to them. Third parties (including, for example, advertising networks and providers of external services like web traffic analysis services) may also use cookies, over which we have no control. These cookies are likely to be analytical/performance cookies or targeting cookies. We do not accept any responsibility or liability if you leave our website or for cookies used by third parties. If you choose to submit your personal data in such circumstances, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing in accordance with their privacy policy.

CHANGES TO OUR PRIVACY POLICY
We keep this policy under regular review. Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, may be notified to you by e-mail. However, we advise that you check this page regularly to keep up to date with any necessary changes.
CONTACT DETAILS
Questions, comments and requests regarding this privacy policy are welcomed and should be addressed to The Data Controller, Cater Link Limited, TVP 2, 300 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 1PT via the "contact us" form or emailed to admin@caterlinkltd.co.uk

