2016 Model Privacy Notice

Draft Preamble
As of December 2, 2016

The Model Privacy Notice (MPN) is a voluntary, openly available resource designed to help health technology developers provide transparent notice to consumers about what happens to their digital health data when the consumer uses the developer's product. The MPN's approach is to provide a standardized, easy-to-use framework to help developers clearly convey information about privacy and security to their users. The MPN does not mandate specific policies or substitute for more comprehensive or detailed privacy policies.

The Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) is updating the 2011 version of the MPN. The 2011 version focused on personal health records (PHRs), which were the emerging technology at the time. The health information technology market has changed significantly in the last five years and there is now a larger variety of products such as exercise trackers, wearable health technologies, or mobile applications that help individuals monitor various body measurements. As such, it is increasingly important for consumers to be aware of health technology developers' privacy and security policies, including data sharing practices.

Preamble for Health Technology Developers

What is the Model Privacy The MPN is a voluntary, openly available resource to help health

Notice (MPN)?

technology developers who collect digital health data clearly convey

information about their privacy policies to their users. Similar to a

nutritional label, the MPN provides a snapshot of a company's existing

privacy and security policies to encourage transparency and help

consumers make informed choices when selecting products. The MPN

does not mandate specific policies or substitute for more comprehensive

or detailed privacy policies.

Who is the MPN for?

The MPN is for health technology developers whose technology or app uses and/or shares users' health data1.

What laws might apply to Health technology developers should consult the Federal Trade

you?

Commission (FTC)'s Mobile Health Apps Interactive Tool (which was

developed in conjunction with the following Department of Health and

Human Services offices and agency: ONC, Office for Civil Rights (OCR), and

the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)) to determine if they need to

comply with the FTC Act, the FTC's Health Breach Notification Rule, HHS's

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy,

Security and Breach Notification Rules, or FDA rules implementing the

Federal Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, as applicable. This tool is not meant

to be legal advice about all compliance obligations, but identifies relevant

laws and regulations from these three federal agencies.

Does use of this MPN

No. The MPN does not ensure compliance with HIPAA or any other law.

satisfy HIPAA

However, the MPN may be used, as applicable, in conjunction with a

requirements to provide a HIPAA notice of privacy practices (please see MPN). To find more

notice of privacy practices? information on HIPAA directed towards health technology developers,

visit the HIPAA Q's Portal for Health App Developers.

1

2016 Model Privacy Notice
Draft Content
As of December 2, 2016
Note: Developers of consumer health technology or apps ("health technology developers") that collect digital health data about individuals would use this template to disclose to consumers the developer's privacy and security policies. "We" refers to the health technology developer or technology product and "you/your" refers to the user/consumer of the health technology. For all endnotes provided in the MPN, the information specified in the endnote is required to be included in the privacy notice. However, for purposes of the Challenge, flexibility is permitted for how the information is presented (e.g., use of a link or pop up box) as long as the format maintains clear interfaces.
*Directions for the health technology developer: If the health technology developer is a HIPAA covered entity, select one of the following statements to be inserted in the privacy notice:
Option 1: Please note that the health data we collect as part of this [insert name of technology product] are not protected by HIPAA and our company's HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices does not apply. Option 2: Some of the health data we collect as part of this [insert name of technology product] also are protected by HIPAA. Read our HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices (embed link or popup] for more information.
Use: How we use your data internally We collect and use your identifiable data2:
 To provide the primary service3 of the app or technology  To develop marketing materials for our products  To conduct scientific research  For company operations (e.g., quality control or fraud detection)  To develop and improve new and current products and services (e.g., analytics4)  Other: _____
Share: How we share your data externally with other companies or entities We share your identifiable data5:
 To provide the primary service6 of the app or technology  To conduct scientific research  For company operations (e.g. quality control or fraud detection)  To develop and improve new and current products and services (e.g., analytics7)  Other:________  We DO NOT share your identifiable data8 We share your data AFTER removing identifiers (note that remaining data may not be anonymous):  For the primary purposes of the app or technology  To conduct scientific research  For company operations (e.g., quality control, fraud detection)  To develop and improve new and current products and services (e.g., analytics9)  Other:________  We DO NOT share your data after removing identifiers
2

Sell: Who we sell your data to

We sell your identifiable data10 to data

 Yes

brokers11, marketing, advertising networks, or

 Yes; only with your permission12

analytics firms.

 No

We sell your data AFTER removing identifiers
(note that remaining data may not be anonymous) to data brokers13, marketing,

 Yes  Yes; only with your permission14
 No

advertising networks, or analytics firms.

Store: How we store your data

Are your data stored on the device?

Yes / No

Are your data stored outside the device at our Yes / No

company or through a third party?

Encryption: How we encrypt your data Does the app or technology use encryption15 to...

encrypt your data in the device or app?

 Yes, by default

 Yes, when you take certain steps (click to learn

how)

 No

 N/A

encrypt your data when stored on our

 Yes, by default

company servers or with an outside cloud computing16 services provider?

 Yes, when you take certain steps (click to learn how)

 No

 N/A

encrypt your data while it is transmitted?

 Yes, by default

 Yes, when you take certain steps (click to learn

how)

 No

 N/A

Privacy: How this technology accesses other data

Will this technology or app request access to

 Yes, only with your permission. It connects to...

other device data or applications, such as your

 Camera

phone's camera, photos, or contacts?

 Photos

 Contacts

 Location services

 Microphone

 Health monitoring devices

 Other: _____________

 [If yes] Here is how you can check your settings,

including permissions set as a default...No

Does this technology or app allow you to

 Yes

share the collected data with your social

 Yes, only with your permission.

media accounts, like Facebook?

 [If yes] Here is how you can check your

settings...No

3

User Options: What you can do with the data that we collect

Can you access, edit, share, or delete the data

 Yes. You can...

we have about you?

 Access your data

 Edit your data

 Share your data

 Delete your data

[If yes] Here is how to do this...

 No

Deactivation17: What happens to your data when your account is deactivated

When your account is deactivated/terminated

 Deleted immediately

by you or the company, your data are...

 Deleted after x years

 Permanently retained and used

 Retained and used until you request deletion

Policy Changes: How we will notify you if our privacy policy changes

Describe how/if the company will notify consumers of privacy policy changes (e.g. merger or acquisition) and
provide link to section in privacy policy.
Breach18: How we will notify you and protect your data in case of an improper disclosure

(Company name] complies with all applicable laws regarding breaches. Describe how the company will protect consumers' data in the case of a breach and provide link to section in privacy policy.

Contact Us

[Legal Entity Name]

[Link to full privacy policy]

[Link to Online Comment/Contact Form]

[Email Address]

[Phone Number]

[Address; minimum, Country]

1 Health data can include, but is not limited to: wellness information (e.g., exercise or fitness habits, nutrition, or
sleep data), health markers (e.g., blood pressure, BMI, or glucose), information on physical or mental health
conditions, insurance or health care information, or information that integrates into or receives information from a
personal health record. 2 Include definition of "identifiable data." Identifiable data means: data, such as your name, phone number, email,
address, health services, information on your physical or mental health conditions, or your social security number,
that can be used on its own or with other information to identify you. 3 If unclear, specify what the developer considers the primary service. 4 Include definition of "analytics." Analytics means: the process of examining data to draw conclusions from that
information. Alternatively, a more consumer friendly definition may be substituted as a result of the Challenge,
including based on consumer testing feedback. 5 Include definition of "identifiable data." Identifiable data means: data, such as your name, phone number, email,
address, health services, information on your physical or mental health conditions, or your social security number,
that can be used on its own or with other information to identify you. 6 If unclear, specify what the developer considers the primary service.

4

7 Include definition of "analytics." Analytics means: the process of examining data to draw conclusions from that information. Alternatively, a more consumer friendly definition may be substituted as a result of the Challenge, including based on consumer testing feedback. 8 Include definition of "identifiable data." Identifiable data means: data, such as your name, phone number, email, address, health services, information on your physical or mental health conditions, or your social security number, that can be used on its own or with other information to identify you. 9 Include definition of "analytics." Analytics means: the process of examining data to draw conclusions from that information. Alternatively, a more consumer friendly definition may be substituted as a result of the Challenge, including based on consumer testing feedback. 10 Include definition of "identifiable data." Identifiable data means: data, such as your name, phone number, email, address, health services, information on your physical or mental health conditions, or your social security number, that can be used on its own or with other information to identify you. 11 Include definition of "data broker." Data broker means: companies that collect personal information about consumers from a variety of public and non-public sources and resell the information to other companies (From FTC: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2012/12/ftc-study-data-broker-industrys-collectionuse-consumer-data). 12 Direct consumers how to adjust permissions. 13 Include definition of "data broker." Data broker means: companies that collect personal information about consumers from a variety of public and non-public sources and resell the information to other companies (From FTC: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2012/12/ftc-study-data-broker-industrys-collectionuse-consumer-data). 14 Direct consumers how to adjust permissions. 15 Include definition of "encryption." Encryption means: a method of converting an original message of regular text into encoded text in such a way that only authorized parties can read it. Alternatively, a more consumer friendly definition may be substituted as a result of the Challenge, including based on consumer testing feedback. 16 Include definition of "cloud computing." Cloud computing means: a kind of Internet-based computing that provides shared processing resources and data to computers and other devices on demand. Alternatively, a more consumer friendly definition may be substituted as a result of the Challenge, including based on consumer testing feedback. 17 Include definition of "deactivation." Deactivation means: an individual takes action or a company ceases operation or deactivates an individual's account due to inactivity. Alternatively, a more consumer friendly definition may be substituted as a result of the Challenge, including based on consumer testing feedback. 18 Include definition of "breach." Breach means: an unauthorized disclosure.
5

