Westpac Privacy Policy.
Our privacy commitment to you. Effective date 27 September 2017.

Contents.
Privacy Policy. 3 About this policy. 3 What is personal information? 3 What kinds of personal information do we collect and hold? 3 For what purposes do we collect, hold, use and disclose personal information?4 How do we collect personal information?4 What laws require or authorise us to collect personal information? 5 How do we hold personal information?6 Who do we disclose your personal information to, and why?6 Do we disclose personal information overseas? 7 Do we use or disclose personal information for marketing?8 Do we collect personal information electronically?8 Access to and correction of personal information.9 Westpac Lenders Mortgage Insurance. 10 Resolving your privacy concerns and complaints Г your rights.10 Contact us.11 Changes to the Privacy Policy.11 Meaning of words.12

Privacy Policy.
When you trust us with your personal information, you expect us to protect it and keep it safe.
We are bound by the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (`Privacy Act') and will protect your personal information in accordance with the Australian Privacy Principles. These principles govern how we can collect, use, hold and disclose your personal information, as well as ensuring the quality and security of your personal information.
If you would like more information about how we protect your privacy, please contact us.
About this policy.
This privacy policy explains how we manage your personal information. Please refer to the Credit Reporting Policy section for information on our management of your credit information.
What is personal information?
Personal information includes any information or opinion, about an identified individual or an individual who can be reasonably identified from their information. The information or opinion will still be personal information whether it is true or not and regardless of whether we have kept a record of it.
The information that we seek to collect about you will depend on the products or services that we provide. If you do not allow us to collect all of the information we request, we may not be able to deliver all of those services effectively.
What kinds of personal information do we collect and hold?
When you apply for our products or services we may ask for identification information. This could include your name, address, contact details and date of birth. We may also collect your tax file number if we are authorised to collect it and if you choose to supply it. If you apply for insurance, we may collect information about what is being insured, the beneficiaries, and your health and financial situation, depending on the type of insurance.
Throughout the life of your product or service, we may collect and hold additional personal information about you. This could include transaction information or making a record of queries or complaints you make and, if you make an insurance claim, collecting additional information to assess the claim.
3

The collection of sensitive information is restricted by the Privacy Act. This includes information about your religion, racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, criminal record, and sexual orientation. It also includes health information and biometric information. Generally, we only collect this sort of information if it is necessary to provide you with a specific product or service and you have consented to that collection. For example, we may collect health information about you to process a claim under an insurance policy or collect voice biometric information to verify your identity or authorise transactions.
For what purposes do we collect, hold, use and disclose personal information?
The main reason we collect, use, hold and disclose personal information is to provide you with products and services. This includes: ии checking whether you are eligible for the product
or service; ии assisting you where online applications are
not completed; ии providing the product or service; and ии helping manage the product or service. We may also use your information to comply with legislative or regulatory requirements in any jurisdiction, prevent fraud, crime or other activity that may cause harm in relation to our products or services and to help us run our business. We may also use your information to tell you about products or services we think may interest you.
How do we collect personal information?
We collect most personal information directly from you. For example, we will collect your personal information when you apply for or use a product or service or talk to us in person or on the phone. We also collect information from you electronically. For instance, when you visit our website or whenever you apply for or access Westpac Group products and services electronically (see "Do we collect personal information electronically?").
4

Sometimes we collect personal information about you from other people or organisations. This may happen without your direct involvement. For instance, we may collect personal information about you from: ии other Westpac Group companies; ии publicly available sources of information, such as
public registers; ии your representatives (including your legal adviser,
mortgage broker, financial adviser, executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, or attorney); ии your employer; ии other organisations, who jointly with us, provide products or services to you; ии commercial information service providers, such as companies that provide fraud prevention reports; and ии insurers, re-insurers and health care providers.
What laws require or authorise us to collect personal information?
We are required or authorised to collect: ии certain identification information about you by
the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth) and Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Rules Instrument 2007 (No. 1); ии your Tax File Number, if you choose to provide it, by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth); ии if you have applied for credit or provide a guarantee, certain information about your financial position under the National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009 (Cth), and if you give us a mortgage security, certain identification information under property laws in some states and territories; and ии certain information in relation to your application if you have applied for an insurance as required by the Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (Cth).
5

How do we hold personal information?
Much of the information we hold about you will be stored electronically in secure data centres which are located in Australia and owned by either the Westpac Group or external service providers. Some information we hold about you will be stored in paper files. We use a range of physical and electronic security measures to protect the security of the personal information we hold. For example:
ии access to information systems is controlled through identity and access management;
ии employees are bound by internal information security policies and are required to keep information secure;
ии all employees are required to complete training about information security; and
ии we regularly monitor and review our compliance with internal policies and industry best practice.
We take reasonable steps to destroy or permanently de-identify any personal information after it can no longer be used.
Who do we disclose your personal information to, and why?
We may share your personal information with other companies within the Westpac Group.
We may also provide personal information about our customers to organisations outside the Westpac Group. To protect personal information, we enter into contracts with our service providers that require them to comply with the Privacy Act. These contracts oblige them to only use the personal information we disclose to them for the specific role we ask them to perform.
Generally, we disclose personal information to organisations that help us with our business. These may include:
ии our agents, contractors and external service providers (for example, mailing houses and technology service providers);
ии authorised representatives and credit representatives who sell products and services on our behalf;
ии insurers, re-insurers and health care providers; ии payment systems operators (for example,
merchants receiving card payments);
6

ии other organisations, who jointly with us, provide products or services to you;
ии other financial services organisations, including banks, superannuation funds, stockbrokers, custodians, funds managers and portfolio service providers;
ии debt collectors; ии our financial advisers, legal advisers or auditors; ии your representatives (including your legal adviser,
accountant, mortgage broker, financial adviser, executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, or attorney); ии fraud bureaus or other organisations to identify, investigate or prevent fraud or other misconduct; ии external dispute resolution schemes; and ии regulatory bodies, government agencies and law enforcement bodies in any jurisdiction. We may also disclose your personal information to others outside the Westpac Group where:
ии we are required or authorised by law or where we have a public duty to do so;
ии you may have expressly consented to the disclosure or the consent may be reasonably inferred from the circumstances; or
ии we are otherwise permitted to disclose the information under the Privacy Act.
Do we disclose personal information overseas?
We may disclose your personal information to a recipient which is located outside Australia. This includes:
ии Westpac Group companies located in China, India, Singapore, New Zealand, United Kingdom, United States;
ии Westpac Group's service providers which are likely to be located in New Zealand, Canada, United States, India, the Philippines, and China; and
ии for international transactions, such as currency exchanges, we may need to disclose your information to the corresponding international party in order to process the transaction. The countries we disclose your information to will depend on the details of the transaction you ask us to carry out.
7

Do we use or disclose personal information for marketing?
We will use your personal information to offer you products and services we believe may interest you, but we will not do so if you tell us not to. These products and services may be offered by a member of the Westpac Group or one of its preferred suppliers. We may offer you products and services by various means, including by mail, telephone, email, SMS or other electronic means , such as through social media or targeted advertising through Westpac Group or non-Westpac Group websites. We may also disclose your personal information to companies outside the Westpac Group who assist us to market products and services to you. If you don't want to receive marketing offers from us please contact us.
Do we collect personal information electronically?
We will collect information from you electronically, for instance through internet browsing, mobile or tablet applications. Each time you visit our website, we collect information about your use of the website, which may include the following: ии The date and time of visits; ии Which pages are viewed; ии How users navigate through the site and interact
with pages (including fields completed in forms and applications completed); ии Location information about users; ии Information about the device used to visit our website; and ии IP addresses. We use technology called cookies when you visit our site. Cookies are small pieces of information stored on your hard drive or in memory. They can record information about your visit to the site, allowing it to remember you the next time you visit and provide a more meaningful experience.
8

One of the reasons for using cookies is to offer you increased security. The cookies we send to your computer cannot read your hard drive, obtain any information from your browser or command your computer to perform any action. They are designed so that they cannot be sent to another site, or be retrieved by any non-Westpac Group site.
We won't ask you to supply personal information publicly over Facebook, Twitter, or any other social media platform that we use. Sometimes we may invite you to send your details to us via private messaging, for example, to answer a question about your account. You may also be invited to share your personal information through secure channels to participate in other activities, such as competitions.
Access to and correction of personal information.
You can request access to the personal information we hold about you. You can also ask for corrections to be made. To do so, please contact us.
There is no fee for requesting that your personal information is corrected or for us to make corrections. In processing your request for access to your personal information, a reasonable cost may be charged. This charge covers such things as locating the information and supplying it to you.
There are some circumstances in which we are not required to give you access to your personal information.
If we refuse to give you access to or to correct your personal information we will give you a notice explaining our reasons except where it would be unreasonable to do so.
If we refuse your request to correct your personal information, you also have the right to request that a statement be associated with your personal information noting that you disagree with its accuracy.
If we refuse your request to access or correct your personal information, we will also provide you with information on how you can complain about the refusal.
9

Westpac Lenders Mortgage Insurance.
For mortgage products, lenders mortgage insurance may be required if your deposit is less than 20 per cent of the purchase price. Lenders mortgage insurance protects the lender if a borrower is unable to meet their mortgage repayments. Westpac Lenders Mortgage Insurance Limited (WLMI) is one of the lenders mortgage insurers that can provide this insurance. This policy only applies to the extent that WLMI uses your personal information for the purpose of deciding whether to provide lenders mortgage insurance in connection with your mortgage and for the purpose of administering any claims.
Resolving your privacy concerns and complaints Г your rights.
If you are concerned about how your personal information is being handled or if you have a complaint about a breach by us of the Australian Privacy Principles, please contact us. We will acknowledge your complaint as soon as we can after receipt of your complaint. We will let you know if we need any further information from you to resolve your complaint. We aim to resolve complaints as quickly as possible. We strive to resolve complaints within five business days but some complaints take longer to resolve. If your complaint is taking longer, we will let you know what is happening and a date by which you can reasonably expect a response. If you are unhappy with our response, there are other bodies you can go to. The Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) can consider most privacy complaints involving providers of financial services. FOS can be contacted at:
Financial Ombudsman Service GPO Box 3 Melbourne VIC 3001 Phone: 1800 367 287 www.fos.org.au
10

Under the Privacy Act you may complain to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner about the way we handle your personal information. The Commissioner can be contacted at: GPO Box 5218 Sydney NSW 2001 Phone: 1300 363 992 Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au www.oaic.gov.au
Contact us.
You can contact us by: calling 132 032 visiting any of our branches or instores writing to us at GPO Box 5265, Sydney NSW 2001. XYLO customers can contact us by: calling 1300 XYLO FX (1300 9956 39) emailing customercare@XYLO.com.au visiting our website www.xylo.com.au. Our Privacy Officer can also be contacted in relation to privacy concerns by writing to GPO Box 5265, Sydney NSW 2001.
Changes to the Privacy Policy.
We may change the way we handle personal information from time to time for any reason. If we do so, we will update this Privacy Policy. An up-to-date version is available on www.westpac.com.au.
11

Meaning of words.
We, us or our means: ии Westpac Banking Corporation
(ABN 33 007 457 141) ии Altitude Rewards Pty Limited (ACN 099 127 376) ии Qvalent Pty Limited (ABN 71 088 314 827) ии Westpac General Insurance Limited
(ABN 99 003 719 319) ии Westpac Lenders Mortgage Insurance Limited
(ABN 60 074 042 934) ии Westpac Life Insurance Services Limited
(ABN 31 003 149 157) ии Westpac Securities Limited (ABN 39 087 924 221) ии XYLO Г A Division of Westpac Banking Corporation
(ABN 33 007 457 141) Westpac Group means Westpac Banking Corporation (ABN 33 007 457 141) and its related bodies corporate.
12

Things you should know: This policy is current as at 27 September 2017. From

time to time, we may make changes to our policy or policies, processes and

systems in relation to how we handle your personal information. We will update

this policy to reflect any changes. Е 2017 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33

007 457 141 AFSL and Australian credit licence 233714. 

PBB001 1017

