Rev. 06/2018

FACTS® WHAT DOES SALLIE MAE DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?

Why?

Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

What? How?

The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you have with us. This information can include:  Social Security number and income  Account balances and payment history  Account transactions and credit history
All financial companies need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their customers' personal information; the reasons Sallie Mae chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information

Does Sallie Mae share?

Can you limit this sharing?

For our everyday business purposes ­ such

as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal

Yes

No

investigations, or report to credit bureaus

For our marketing purposes ­ to offer our products and services to you

Yes

No

For joint marketing with other financial companies

Yes

No

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes ­ information about your transactions and experiences

Yes

No

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes ­ information about your creditworthiness

Yes

Yes

For our affiliates to market to you

Yes

Yes

For nonaffiliates to market to you

No

We don't share

To limit our sharing

 Call toll free 1-855-582-1928 ­ to select your choices
Please note: If you are a new customer, we can begin sharing your information 30 days from the date we sent this notice. When you are no longer our customer, we continue to share your information as described in this notice.
However, you can contact us at any time to limit our sharing.

Questions? Call toll free 1-855-582-1928 or go to www.SallieMae.com

Page 2

Who we are

Who is providing this notice?

Numerous Sallie Mae financial companies. Please see the bottom of this page for the full list of the Sallie Mae companies providing this notice.

What we do

How does Sallie Mae protect my personal information?

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings.

How does Sallie Mae collect my personal information?
Why can't I limit all sharing?
What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?

We collect your personal information, for example, when you:  apply for a loan or give us your contact information  open an account or deposit money  use your credit or debit card We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies.
Federal law gives you the right to limit only  sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes ­ information about your
creditworthiness  affiliates from using your information to market to you  sharing for nonaffiliates to market to you State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing. See below for more on your rights under state law. Your choices will apply to everyone on your account.

Definitions

Affiliates Nonaffiliates

Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.  Our affiliates include companies with a Sallie Mae or Upromise name,
such as Sallie Mae Bank and Upromise, Inc.; and financial companies such as SMB Business Development, Inc., SMB Shared Services, Inc., SMB IT, Inc., and Deserve, Inc.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.  Nonaffiliates we share with can include service providers such as data
processors and companies that help us market our own products and third party products that we believe may be of interest to you.

Joint marketing

A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.  Our joint marketing partners include financial institutions such as companies
that provide credit products and insurance companies.

Other important information

VT Residents: For accounts with a Vermont mailing address, we will not share your creditworthiness information with our affiliates except as required or permitted by law. For joint marketing with other financial companies, we will only disclose your name, contact information and information about your transactions unless otherwise required or permitted by law. CA Residents: For accounts with a California mailing address, we will not share your personal information with a financial company for joint marketing purposes except as required or permitted by law.

This notice is made on behalf of the following Sallie Mae companies: SLM Corporation, Sallie Mae Bank, SMB Business Development, Inc., SMB Shared Services, Inc.,SMB IT, Inc., and Deserve, Inc.
This notice is also provided on behalf of all trusts or other special purpose entities established by any Sallie Mae company.

