As of January 27, 2017, the Crashlytics service, formerly provided by Twitter, Inc., will be owned and operated by Google Inc. Developers who use Crashlytics are responsible for maintaining privacy policies addressing the collection, use, and disclosure of their users' information, including the processing of that information by third party providers like Google. Users should refer to the privacy policies governing the apps they use.
CRASHLYTICS PRIVACY POLICY
Last Updated: January 27, 2017
Crashlytics, a business division of Google Inc., (herein referred to as "Crashlytics") offers a suite of services to provide mobile application developers with information about the functioning of publicly released and beta versions of their mobile applications. The following Crashlytics Privacy Policy ("Privacy Policy") governs the Crashlytics crash reporting and beta testing solution and w ww.crashlytics.com as well as our other websites (collectively, the "Services"). Effective November 20, 2015, this Privacy Policy does not cover w ww.answers.io or Crashlytics's "Answers" service, which is a software development kit and associated services focused on analysis and computation of the behavior and usage of mobile applications, including app analytics, event tracking, and conversion tracking. If you are an End User of a mobile application that uses Answers, then please consult the Answers Privacy Policy. If you are a Developer that uses Answers, then please consult the Answers Agreement, which is the contract between you and Crashlytics that governs the information collected by Answers effective November 20, 2015. This Privacy Policy describes how Crashlytics collects, uses, and shares information about application developers that are customers of Crashlytics and use the Services ("Developers") and the end users of the mobile applications ("End Users") that use the Services. The policy also explains how Crashlytics collects and uses information when individuals visit w ww.crashlytics.com as well as our other websites. We encourage you to read this Privacy Policy in order to learn more about how we safeguard your privacy.
When using any of our Services you consent to the collection, transfer, manipulation, storage, disclosure and other uses of your information as described in this Privacy Policy. This includes any information you choose to provide that is deemed sensitive under applicable law. Irrespective of which country you are based in, you authorize Crashlytics to use your information in, and as a result to transfer it to and store it in, the United States and any other country where Crashlytics, or any third-party service providers acting on its behalf, operates. Privacy and data protection laws in some of these countries may vary from the laws in the country where you are based.
SCOPE OF THIS PRIVACY POLICY Section 1 of this Privacy Policy covers Crashlytics's treatment of information that may be collected from End Users. Section 2 of this Privacy Policy covers Crashlytics's treatment of information collected from Developers using the Services. Section 3 contains information about

our privacy practices that applies to both Developers and End Users, including information collected when individual visits w ww.crashlytics.com as well as our other websites.
The policy specifically addresses the following areas:
 What information is collected by the Crashlytics websites and Services;  How Crashlytics uses this information;  With whom Crashlytics may share this information;  What choices are available to you with respect to collection and use of information
collected by Crashlytics;  What types of security procedures are in place to protect against the loss, misuse or
alteration of information under our control; and  How you can correct any inaccuracies in the information we hold about you.
This policy does not apply to the practices of companies not owned or controlled by Crashlytics (including Developers) or to people whom Crashlytics does not employ or manage.
SECTION 1: END USER INFORMATION
This Section provides information on the collection and use of information from End Users.
What information does Crashlytics collect from End Users?
The Services automatically collect certain information that does not personally identify End Users who access or use mobile applications that use the Services. This information includes, but is not limited to, device state information, unique device identifiers, device hardware and OS information, information relating to how an application functions, and the physical location of a device at the time of a crash.
Developers may also enable certain features of the Services that collect additional information that does not personally identify End Users who access or use mobile applications that use the Services. This information includes, but is not limited to, information relating to how an End User uses that Developer's application(s).
In addition, Developers may enable certain features of the Services that will allow Crashlytics to collect some End Users' personally identifiable information, as well as whether the End User installed or used the Developer's application and feedback that End Users voluntarily provide. For example, (i) a Developer may provide Crashlytics with an End User's email address so that Crashlytics can invite the End User to test a particular version of the Developer's application, and the End User may download that application and submit feedback about it and (ii) a Developer may choose to append custom metadata to crash reports that they send to Crashlytics from their applications; Developers may choose to include personally identifying information about End Users in this metadata, like name or email address, so that Developers

can, for example, contact such End Users to troubleshoot issues with Developers' applications. Crashlytics may also receive a confirmation when you open an email from us. Crashlytics captures all of this information on Developers' behalf so that they can understand and improve their applications and communicate with users about their experience with the applications. Crashlytics requires Developers to use Crashlytics to collect information solely for these purposes, and to observe all applicable laws and regulations.
We require that all Developers maintain a privacy policy that fully and accurately discloses the type of information collected, and that the information is shared with third party service providers like Crashlytics. However, Crashlytics does not require Developers to disclose that information is shared with Crashlytics in particular, so Developers' privacy policies might not name Crashlytics specifically.
How does Crashlytics use the information that it collects?
The information Crashlytics collects about End Users and their activities is the property of the Developer, not of Crashlytics. The information collected by the Services from End Users is used to provide Developers with insight into the functionality of and engagement with their applications, including any problems that occur. Our algorithms process and analyze the data separately for each Developer. However, Crashlytics may aggregate information across Developers in a nonpersonally identifiable way. Such aggregate and anonymous information is used by Crashlytics to (i) improve the Services, (ii) create analysis of trends or behaviors, and (iii) other similar uses, but always in an aggregate and anonymous way.
Will Crashlytics share information about me with anyone else?
Except as provided below in Section 3, we never divulge End User data to anyone other than the Developer on whose behalf we are collecting and analyzing its End User data.
Is there a way that End Users can opt out of collection of information by Crashlytics?
Collection of information is at the discretion of each Developer, so please consult with the Developer whose application you are using as to how to opt out of collection of information by Crashlytics.
If you are, or have been invited to be, a beta tester, you can turn off email updates for particular applications at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the email footer of these updates. If you want to stop using the beta testing service altogether, you can remove from your mobile device any Developer applications that you are testing, along with the Crashlytics app (on Android) or web clip and certificate (on iOS).
SECTION 2: DEVELOPER INFORMATION

This Section provides information on the collection and use of information from Developers.
What information does Crashlytics collect from Developers?
Crashlytics collects the following information from Developers:
Usage Data:
Crashlytics collects information relating to the usage of the Services from Developers in order to better provide the service to Developers and to improve the performance of the Services generally.
Account Information:
When you create an account with Crashlytics, you will provide us with certain personally identifiable information, such as your name, contact information, and account username and password. We recognize that this information is very important to you and we will never divulge any of your personally identifiable information to anyone without your permission except as needed to provide Services to you and as described in Section 3 below.
Email Communications:
We may receive a confirmation when you open an email from us. We use this confirmation to improve our customer service. To opt out of receiving promotional emails from us, please follow the unsubscribe instructions in any of our promotional emails or contact us at support@crashlytics.com.
How does Crashlytics use the information collected from Developers?
Our primary goal in collecting information from you is to provide you with a smooth, efficient, and customized experience while using our websites and to allow us to provide the Services to you. We use personal information solely for the purpose of contacting you with respect to your use of the Services, providing the Services to you and generally facilitating your use of the Services, or informing you about features of our Services that may be of interest to you.
In order to customize the online user experience, improve the Services generally, and provide Developers with useful statistics and analysis regarding use of the Services, we may use certain aggregate, anonymous information, including, without limitation, Services usage information, for such purpose, but never in a manner in which Developer or any End User is reasonably ascertainable.
How can Developers change or delete information?

You may review, update, correct, or delete the personally identifiable information in your Crashlytics account where it is inaccurate by contacting us. If you would like us to delete your Crashlytics account in our system, please contact us at support@crashlytics.com with a request that we delete your personally identifiable information from our database. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to honor your request. If you request that your personally identifiable information be deleted from our records, there may be a brief delay in our processing that request, while we verify that the request is valid and originates from you as opposed to an unauthorized third party. If you request that your information be deleted, we reserve the right to terminate and/or limit your access to the Services, as we may need such information to provide the Services to you. We may retain an archived copy of your records as required by law or for legitimate business purposes. If your personally identifiable information changes, you may contact us to correct, update or delete and deactivate our record of your personally identifiable information.
SECTION 3: GENERAL INFORMATION
This Section applies to information collected from End Users and Developers, as well as visitors to the Crashlytics website.
What precautions does Crashlytics take to ensure the security of information collected?
Crashlytics has implemented reasonable security measures in order to protect both personal and nonpersonal information from loss, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
Under what circumstances will Crashlytics share my information with third parties?
Except for the provision of End User information relating to a specific Developer's application to that Developer as described above, Crashlytics will never give your information to, or share your information with, any third party except as provided below (which disclosure shall always be in accordance with applicable law). Crashlytics will share information about you only as follows:
 We may share information with service providers we engage to perform functions and provide services to us in the United States and abroad, subject to obligations consistent with this Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures, and on the condition that the third parties use your information only on our behalf and pursuant to our instructions.
 We may share crash report information with developers who offer software development kits via Google's Fabric portal for application developers if a Developer has integrated such a kit into their application

and the given crash is attributable to such a kit, subject to confidentiality obligations consistent with this Privacy Policy, and on the condition that such kit developers use this information solely to maintain and improve their kits.
 We have your consent to share the information.
 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Privacy Policy, we may preserve or disclose information if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to comply with a law, regulation, legal process, or government request; to protect the safety of any person; to address fraud, security, or technical issues; or to protect Crashlytics's rights or property.
 In the event that Crashlytics is involved in a bankruptcy, merger, acquisition, reorganization or sale of assets, your information may be sold or transferred as part of that transaction. The promises in this Privacy Policy will apply to your information as transferred to the new entity.
Does Crashlytics collect any information from children?
Our websites and the Services are not directed to children and Crashlytics does not knowingly collect any personally identifiable information from children under 13 years of age. If you learn that Crashlytics has collected any personally identifiable information from children under 13 years of age, please contact us at support@crashlytics.com.
Does Crashlytics collect information when I visit the Crashlytics websites?
When you visit our websites, our servers automatically record certain information. This web log information includes your IP address, browser type, operating system, the referring web page, pages visited, and cookie information (discussed further below). Like many websites, we use web log information, along with cookies, pixels, and similar technologies, to operate our websites, better understand how they are used, resolve technical problems, and enhance your experience on our websites.
Does Crashlytics use cookies?
Yes. Like many companies, Crashlytics uses cookies. A cookie is a small text file stored on the customer's hard drive for an extended period of time, which may include a unique identifier that is sent to a user's browser from a website's computer and stored on the user's computer's hard drive. The website placing the cookie on the user's computer can then recognize the computer when the user navigates the website at a later time. We use this information to improve your experience.

Although most web browsers automatically accept cookies, some browsers' settings can be modified to decline cookies or alert you when a website is attempting to place a cookie on your computer. Consult the help manual for your browser for detailed information. If you choose to decline cookies, you may lose some of the functionality associated with the Services or the Crashlytics websites.
Does Crashlytics control Developers or other third parties?
No. Please be advised that we do not control and are not responsible for the privacy practices of any third party, including, but not limited to, Developers and any website or service that links to or from the Crashlytics websites or the Services. While, as discussed above, we require that Developers maintain a privacy policy that fully and accurately discloses their data collection practices, we cannot control the actions of Developers, so please be sure to review the privacy policies of any online services that you may use. Our websites may contain links to other sites. Crashlytics is not responsible for the privacy practices or content of these other sites. When you leave our websites or view a portion of a third party's site through our websites, we encourage you to read the privacy policies of each such site. This Privacy Policy applies solely to information collected by Crashlytics.
Does Crashlytics participate in the EU-US Privacy Shield program?
Yes. To bring you the Services, we operate globally. Crashlytics and Google Inc. comply with the EU-US Privacy Shield principles (the "Principles") regarding the collection, use, sharing, and retention of personal information from the European Union, as described in our Privacy Shield certification.
If you have a Privacy Shield-related complaint, please contact us as explained in the "Who can I contact" section below. As part of our participation in Privacy Shield, if you have a dispute with us about our adherence to the Principles, we will seek to resolve it through our internal complaint resolution process. Google is subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC). You may also refer a complaint to your local data protection authority and we will work with them to resolve your concern. In certain circumstances, the Privacy Shield Framework provides the right to invoke binding arbitration to resolve complaints not resolved by other means, as described in Annex I to the Privacy Shield Principles.
Crashlytics and Google Inc. also comply with the US-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework and principles, as described in our c ertification, and applies the Privacy Shield Principles to information from Switzerland.
Can this Privacy Policy change?

We may amend this Privacy Policy from time to time. If we make a change to this policy that, in our sole discretion, is material, we will notify you by posting notice of the change on crashlytics.com and in this Privacy Policy.
Who can I contact if I have questions about this Privacy Policy?
If you have any questions about our Privacy Policy, the Crashlytics websites, the Services, or any inquiries or requests regarding your information, please contact us at support@crashlytics.com. For Privacy Shield inquiries, please include "Privacy Shield" in the subject of your message. We will make every effort to resolve your concerns.

