Layer3 TV Privacy Policy
Protecting our customers' privacy is an important priority at Layer3 TV, and we are committed to maintaining strong and meaningful privacy protections. Layer3 TV and its affiliates take the protection of our subscribers' ("you" or "your" or "customer(s)") privacy seriously. The following privacy policy ("Privacy Policy") applies to those Layer3 TV customers who subscribe to Layer3 TV's multichannel video programming services, Layer3 TV's fiber-optic Internet services and to other customers served over our fiber-to-the premises network (each a "Service" or, collectively, "Services"). Certain services offered to consumers as well as contracts between Layer3 TV and its business customers may contain additional privacy-related terms and conditions that are presented to you in other ways. Please review this Privacy Policy in conjunction with your Terms and Conditions of Service. Layer3 TV will provide you copies of this Privacy Policy annually, whether or not we have revised the policy. The most current version of this Privacy Policy can be found at www.layer3tv.com.
We reserve the right to make changes to this Privacy Policy, so please check back periodically for changes. You will be able to see that changes have been made by checking to see the effective date posted at the end of the policy. If you find the changes unacceptable and if those changes materially and adversely impact your use of the Service, you may have the right to cancel your Service as set forth in the Terms and Conditions of Service. If you continue to use the Service following the posting of a revised Privacy Policy, we will consider that to be your acceptance of and consent to the Privacy Policy as revised.
Our Privacy Policy describes the information that Layer3 TV collects and retains, how Layer3 TV uses and protects it, the limited cases where Layer3 TV may disclose some or all of that information, and your rights under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. The privacy of your information is a significant responsibility. We value the trust you place in us, and consider all personally identifiable information contained in our business records to be confidential. Please note that Layer3 TV is not responsible for information, content, app or services provided by others. Before you access, use, link to or download a service or app on your set-top-box, computer, television, wireless or other device, you should review the associated terms of service and privacy policy. Personal information you submit in those contexts may be read, collected or used by the service or app provider and others in ways that are different from described here.
Information about the Cable Act
To the extent that Section 631 of the Cable Act applies to services you purchase, it entitles you to know about the personally identifiable information a cable service provider collects. This includes the nature of the use and disclosure of this information and to whom it may be disclosed, how long personally identifiable information is maintained, and how subscribers may access it. In addition, the Cable Act imposes limits on the collection and disclosure of personal information and gives subscribers the ability to enforce their privacy rights. Personally identifiable information does not include aggregate data that does not identify a particular person.
The Cable Act allows a provider to use its cable system to collect personally identifiable information necessary to render a cable service or other services provided to subscribers and to detect and prevent unauthorized access to services. Additional personally identifiable information may be collected with the subscriber's prior consent. Personally identifiable information may be used or disclosed without the

subscriber's consent where necessary to render services, and to conduct legitimate business activities related to services provided.
We may be required by law to disclose personally identifiable information to a governmental entity to comply with valid legal process, such as warrants, court orders or subpoenas, but we will not disclose records revealing your selection of video programming unless we receive a court order indicating that the governmental entity has made a specified showing of relevance and you were afforded an opportunity to contest the order. We may be required to disclose personally identifiable information (including your selection of video programming) to a non-governmental entity to comply with a court order, after you have been provided notice.
The Cable Act permits the disclosure of customer names and addresses as long as a subscriber has been provided with the opportunity to prohibit or limit this disclosure and the disclosure does not reveal, directly or indirectly, the subscriber's viewing or other uses of the cable or other services provided. If we intend to share data in this way, we will provide you with the opportunity to prohibit or limit this type of sharing.
What type of information does Layer3 TV collect?
Layer3 TV collects both personally identifiable information and non-personal information about you when you subscribe to and use our Service. Layer3 TV uses its system to collect personally identifiable information about you: (a) when it is necessary to provide our services to you; (b) to prevent unauthorized reception of our services; and/or (c) as otherwise provided in this Privacy Policy. Layer3 TV will not use the system to collect your personally identifiable information for other purposes without your prior written or electronic consent. Layer3 TV also collects personally identifiable and non-personal information about you when you voluntarily provide information to Layer3 TV, as may be required under applicable law, and from third parties, as described in this Privacy Policy.
Personally identifiable information is any information that identifies or can potentially be used to identify, contact, and/or locate you. This includes information that is used in a way that is personally identifiable, including linking it with identifiable information from other sources, or from which other personally identifiable information can easily be derived, including, but not limited to, name, address, phone or fax number, email address, spouses or other relatives' names, driver's license or state identification number, financial profiles, social security number, bank account information, and credit card information. Personally identifiable information does not include information that is collected anonymously (i.e., without identification of the individual or household) or demographic information not connected to an identified individual or household. Non-personal information, which may or may not be aggregated information about our customers and may include information from third parties, does not identify individual customers. Layer3 TV may combine third party data with our business records as necessary to better serve our customers. Examples of non-personal information generally include IP addresses, MAC addresses or other equipment identifiers, among other data. Our systems may automatically collect certain non-personal information when you use an interactive or transactional service. This information is generally required to provide the service and is used to carry out requests a customer makes through a remote control or set-top box.
We may also collect and maintain information about your account, such as billing and payment history; maintenance and complaint information; correspondence with or from you, information about the service options that you have chosen; information about the equipment you have, including specific

equipment identifiers; and information about your use of our Service, including the type, technical arrangement, quantity, destination and amount of use of certain of those services, and related billing for those services. We use this information to establish, monitor and maintain your account and billing records; measure credit and payment risk; provide account-related services; deliver and maintain your products and services; help you with service-related issues or questions; manage and protect our networks, services and users from fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful uses; help us improve our services and research and develop new products and services; authenticate you; determine your eligibility for new products and services and contact you with marketing offers.
When you contact us or we contact you, we may monitor or record that communication or keep a record of the transaction to help us train employees and better serve you. You acknowledge and agree that all communications between you and Layer3 TV may be recorded or monitored by Layer3 TV for quality assurance or other purposes.
When you establish an online account or register on our sites or apps, we may collect information about your user identification, password and secret questions and answers. We use this information to authenticate you when you sign in.
We may automatically measure and monitor network performance and the performance of your connections to improve your, or our, service levels and products. If you contact us for service support, we also may access information about your computer, wireless device or other device settings to provide customized technical support or to install specific applications or services that you use or that are necessary to the applications or services you use.
Information provided to us by third parties.
When you purchase products or apply for service with us, we may obtain credit information about you from outside credit reporting agencies to help us with customer authentication and credit-related decisions. If you lease your residence, we may have information about how to reach your landlord and whether landlord permission is required to install our facilities.
We may obtain information from outside companies such as those that collect consumer information including demographic and interest data. Examples of this information include gender, age range, sports enthusiast, frequent diner or pet owner. We use this data and combine it with other information we have about you to help us predict your preferences, to direct marketing offers that might be more relevant to you, and to help us better analyze customer information for various purposes including credit and payment risk.
We also obtain contact information and other marketing lead information from third parties, website "refer-a-friend" options or social media platforms and may combine it with information we have to contact you or direct Layer3 TV marketing offers to you.
Information you provide.
When you contact us for information about products and services or when you enter a Layer3 TVsponsored or affiliated contest, sweepstakes or promotion, we may use the information you supply to provide you with information about Layer3 TV services, programs or offerings. Certain promotions may

require that we disclose information, such as contest winners or provide information for prize fulfillment, and as required by law or permitted by the promotion's official rules. Information you provide on our websites about your preferred location and other preferences may be used to provide you with more relevant product recommendations, services and special offers.
If you provide information to us in the context of an event that Layer3 TV sponsors with another organization, or if you visit a co-sponsored site or use a co-sponsored service, you also may be providing information to the co-sponsor. You should refer to that co-sponsor's privacy policy for information about its practices which may differ from our practices.
We also collect information from you when you participate in surveys or provide other feedback to us regarding our products or services, when you register to receive news or public policy updates, or when you apply for a job with or a grant from Layer3 TV. We use this information for the purposes described to you at the time the information is collected.
We may send you emails that communicate information about your account or about products, services, marketing offers, or promotions that may be of interest to you. When you open a Layer3 TV email or click on links within these emails, we may collect and retain information to provide you with future communications that may be more interesting to you. Please note that we will not ask you to send us, via email, sensitive personal or account information. Layer3 TV also collects customer-provided customization settings and preferences. By using our service, you consent to our collection of this information and other information communicated to Layer3 TV such as correspondence, responses to surveys or emails, information provided in chat and text message sessions with us, registration information, or participation in promotions or contests.
Our set-top boxes automatically collect information that may be used to determine which programs are most popular, how many set-top boxes are tuned to watch a program to its conclusion and whether commercials are being watched, as well as other audience-measurement focused information. Our processes are designed to track this information and audience statistics on an anonymous basis. Information such as channel tuning, the time the channel is changed, and when the set-top box is "on" or "off" is collected at a secure database in an anonymous format. Layer3 TV, or our contractors or agents, may from time to time share the anonymous information with our advertisers, content providers, or other third parties with whom we have a relationship. We will not provide our advertisers, content providers, or these other third parties with personally identifiable information about you unless we have received your consent first, except as required by law.
Why does Layer3 TV collect personally identifiable information?
Layer3 TV collects and uses personally identifiable information to:
1. deliver our Services to you; 2. provide you with accurate and high quality customer service; 3. perform billing, invoicing and collections; 4. provide updates, upgrades, repairs or replacements for our Services related devices or
software used in providing or receiving service; 5. protect the security of the system, prevent fraud, detect unauthorized reception, use,
and abuse of Layer3 TV's Services or violations of our policies or terms and conditions of service;

6. keep you informed of new or available features, products and services; 7. better understand how our Services are being used and to improve our Services; 8. manage and configure our device(s), system(s) and network(s); 9. maintain accounting, tax, legal and other types of records; and 10. comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, as well as the general
administration of our business.
If you use an interactive or transactional service, for example, responding to a survey or ordering a payper-view event, the system will collect certain additional personally identifiable information, such as account and billing information or customer-provided locale and service preferences, to properly bill you for the Services purchased and to provide you with a more personalized experience. In addition, certain information is automatically collected to, for example, make it possible for your set-top box(es) to receive and process the signals for the Services you order. Follow your program guide commands or any special instructions on your screen when you make these transactional requests. These commands and instructions will explain your choices so that you can complete or cancel your requests as you wish.
Layer3 TV may also collect personally identifiable information from third parties to enhance our customer database for use in marketing and other activities. Layer3 TV also collects personally identifiable information from third parties to verify information you have provided us and collects personally identifiable information from credit reporting agencies to, for example, determine your creditworthiness, credit score, and credit usage. Layer3 TV also may maintain research records containing information obtained through voluntary subscriber interviews or surveys.
Information about your use of Layer3 TV products and services may be aggregated or otherwise deidentified for business and marketing uses by us or by third parties. For example, aggregate or deidentified data may be used to improve our services, measure and analyze the use of services and to help make services and advertising more relevant to you.
Relevant advertising programs.
Relevant TV Advertising. This program helps advertisers reach Layer3 TV television customers with advertisements that may be more relevant to their interests. We do not share any information that identifies you personally outside of Layer3 TV as part of this program other than with vendors and partners who do work for us. We require that these vendors and partners protect the information and use it only for the services they are providing us. Relevant TV ads may appear on a variety of platforms where Layer3 TV television customers can access video content. We help advertisers deliver ads to audiences based on demographic and interest information (such as gender, family size, and luxury car owner) we obtain from other companies, your address and certain information about your Layer3 TV products and services (such as service packages purchased, video on-demand purchases, and program viewing data).
Relevant Online Advertising. This program helps advertisers better reach Layer3 TV Internet access customers using the postal address we have for you; certain information about your Layer3 TV products and services--such as broadband service features; and demographic and interest information provided to us by other companies--such as gender, age-range, sports fan, frequent diner or pet owner. This information is used to predict whether you fit within an audience an advertiser is trying to reach. We do not share any information that identifies you personally outside of Layer3 TV as part of this program

other than with vendors and partners who do work for us. We require that these vendors and partners protect the information and use if only for the services they are providing us.
Who sees the information collected by Layer3 TV?
We may disclose information that individually identifies our customers or identifies customer devices in certain circumstances, such as:
(1) to comply with valid legal process including subpoenas, court orders or search warrants, and as otherwise authorized by law;
(2) in cases involving danger of death or serious physical injury to any person or other emergencies; (3) to protect our rights or property, or the safety of our customers or employees; (4) to protect against fraudulent, malicious, abusive, unauthorized or unlawful use of or
subscription to our products and services and to protect our network, services, devices and users from such use; (5) to advance or defend against complaints or legal claims in court, administrative proceedings and elsewhere; (6) to credit bureaus or collection agencies to determine credit risk, for reporting purposes or to obtain payment for Layer3 TV-billed products and services; (7) to a third-party that you have authorized to verify your account information; (8) to outside auditors and regulators; or (9) with your consent.
We may also use or disclose personally identifiable information about you without your consent (a) to protect our customers, employees, or property, (b) in emergency situations, (c) to enforce our rights in court or elsewhere, or directly with you, for violations of service terms, conditions or policies and/or (d) in order to comply with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act or as otherwise required by law, for example, as part of a regulatory proceeding.
As described in more detail in other sections of this Privacy Policy, Layer3 TV also may share certain information with outside companies, for example, to assist with the delivery of advertising campaigns or preparing and sharing aggregate reports. This information does not identify Layer3 TV customers individually.
When you purchase services offered jointly by Layer3 TV and one of our partners, customer information may be received by both Layer3 TV and our partner that is providing your service. For these jointly offered services, you should also review the partner company's privacy policy, which may include practices that are different from the practices described here.
Information shared within the Layer3 TV family of companies.
Layer3 TV shares customer information within our family of companies for a variety of purposes, including, for example, providing you with the latest information about our products and services and offering you our latest promotions.

Information shared outside the Layer3 TV family of companies
Except as explained in our full Privacy Policy, in privacy policies for specific services, or in agreements with our customers, we do not sell, license or share information that individually identifies our customers, people using our networks, or website visitors with others outside Layer3 TV for non-Layer3 TV purposes without the consent of the person whose information will be shared. We use vendors and partners for a variety of business purposes such as to help us offer, provide, repair and bill for services we provide. We share information with those vendors and partners when it is necessary for them to perform work on our behalf. For example, we may provide your credit card information and billing address to our payment processing company(ies) solely for the purpose of processing payment for a transaction you have requested. We require that these vendors and partners protect the customer information we provide to them and limit their use of Layer3 TV customer data to the purposes for which it was provided. We do not permit these types of vendors and partners to use this information for their own marketing purposes.
Layer3 TV will only disclose personally identifiable information to others if (a) a customer provides written or electronic consent in advance, or (b) it is permitted or required under federal or applicable state law. Specifically, federal law allows Layer3 TV to disclose personally identifiable information to third parties:
1. When it is necessary to provide Layer3 TV's services or to carry out Layer3 TV's business activities;
2. As required by law or legal process; or 3. For mailing lists or other purposes, subject to your ability to limit this last type of
disclosure.
To provide Services and carry out our business activities, certain authorized people have access to your information, including our employees, entities affiliated through common ownership or control with Layer3 TV and third parties that provide and/or include: billing and collection services; installation, repair and customer service subcontractors or agents; program guide distributors; software vendors; fiber-optic internet service vendors; program and other service suppliers for audit purposes; marketers of Layer3 TV's products and services; third party auditors; our attorneys and accountants; and/or strategic partners offering or providing products or services jointly or on behalf of Layer3 TV. The frequency of disclosures varies according to our business needs, and may involve access on a regular basis. Layer3 TV restricts third parties' use of your information to the purposes for which it has been disclosed to us and we prohibit third parties from disclosing or using your personally identifiable information obtained from us for any purpose other than what has been disclosed to and approved by us.
Unless you object in writing in advance, federal law also allows Layer3 TV to disclose through "mailing lists," personally identifiable information, such as your name, address and the level of your service subscription, to non-affiliated entities, including advertisers and marketing entities, for non-service related purposes, including product advertisement, direct marketing and research. Under no circumstances will Layer3 TV disclose to these advertising entities the extent of your viewing habits or the transactions you make over the system. Layer3 TV, or our contractors or agents, may from time to time share non-personal and/or aggregate information such as the number of Service subscribers who match certain statistical profiles (for example, the number of subscribers in various parts of the country)

with our advertisers, content providers, business partners or other third parties with whom we have a relationship.
We may provide anonymous data to third parties who may combine it with other information to conduct more comprehensive audience analysis for us and for television advertisers. This data helps program networks and cable operators decide on which programs, channels, and advertising to carry. Layer3 TV may also use that information to distribute targeted advertising to you without having disclosed any of your personally identifiable information to the advertisers. These advertisements may invite interactive or transactional follow-up from you. By using any of Layer3 TV's interactive services, you consent to our collection of this additional information. Unless you consent or except as required by law, only anonymous information is disclosed to audience measurement services.
Business Activities As part of its business activities, if Layer3 TV enters into a merger, acquisition, or sale of all or a portion of our assets or business, Layer3 TV will also transfer customers' personally identifiable and nonpersonal information as part of or in connection with the transaction, and you consent to this transfer of your information.
Compliance If allowed by and after complying with any federal law requirements, Layer3 TV may disclose personally identifiable information about customer to representatives of government or to comply with valid legal process but, except as provided below, disclosures shall not include records revealing customer's selection of video programming. Disclosures to representatives of government may be made pursuant to an administrative subpoena, warrant, court order, our reasonable discretion in cases of emergency or serious physical injury, or other permitted means. In these situations, Layer3 TV may be required to disclose personally identifiable information about a customer without customer's consent and without notice to the customer. In some instances, where there are valid legal requests for or orders for disclosure of your information, we may notify you of the requests or orders and then it may be up to you to object or take specific action to prevent any disclosures pursuant to those requests or orders.
Where a governmental entity is seeking personally identifiable information of a customer who subscribes to Layer3 TV's video services or records revealing a customer's selection of video programming, the Cable Act requires a court order and that the video subscriber be afforded the opportunity to appear and contest in a court proceeding relevant to the court order any claims made in support of the court order. At such a proceeding, the Cable Act requires the governmental entity to offer clear and convincing evidence that the subject of the information is reasonably suspected of engaging in criminal activity and that the information sought would be material evidence in the prosecution of the case. Except in certain situations (such as with respect to those who owe, or are owed, welfare or child support) state welfare agencies may obtain the names, addresses, and certain other customer information as it appears in Layer3 TV's subscriber records under the authority of an administrative subpoena.
Can I prohibit or limit Layer3 TV's use and disclosure of my personally identifiable information?
You have choices about how we share and use information.
Marketing emails you receive from Layer3 TV include an unsubscribe instruction (usually found at the bottom of the email) that you may use to opt out of receiving future marketing-related emails. Federal

"Do Not Call" laws allow you to place residential phone numbers on the National Do Not Call Registry to prevent telemarketing calls to those numbers. If you would like to add your numbers to this list, you may do so by calling 1.888.382.1222, or by visiting donotcall.gov. Most telemarketing laws allow companies to contact their own customers without consulting the federal or state Do Not Call lists. If you would like to be removed from Layer3 TV's residential telemarketing list, please contact us at 844Layer3TV (844-529-3738). Please allow 30 days for your telephone number to be removed from any sales programs that are currently underway. If you do not want your name, address, level of service or other personally identifiable information disclosed to third parties in a "mailing list" as explained above, please contact us by telephone at 844-Layer3TV (844-529-3738). Also, if you do not want to receive marketing messages (e.g., phone calls, emails, and direct mail) from Layer3 TV, you may call 844Layer3TV (844-529-3738) and request to have your privacy preferences updated. Please note that such request will not eliminate all telephone calls, emails or direct mail sent to you from Layer3 TV, as Layer3 TV may still continue to send non-marketing account-related messages to you. You cannot opt-out of the collection of audience measurement data.
If you choose to interact with specific advertisers who advertise on our apps, sites or services, the information you provide to them is subject to the conditions of their specific privacy policies. We may also permit advertisers on our sites, apps and services to place ads based on certain information we have about your Layer3 TV products and services as well as geographic or demographic data. Information used for this purpose does not identify you individually.
Layer3 TV websites and services may include social network or other third-party plug-ins and widgets that may provide information to their associated social networks or third-parties about the Layer3 TV page you visit or services you use, even if you do not click on or otherwise interact with the plug-in or widget.
How long does Layer3 TV maintain personally identifiable information? Layer3 TV maintains personally identifiable information about you in our regular business records while you are a subscriber to our Services. We also maintain this information for a period of time after you are no longer a subscriber if the information is necessary for the purposes for which it was collected or to satisfy legal requirements. These purposes typically include business, legal, accounting or tax purposes. If these purposes no longer apply, we will destroy, de-identify, or anonymize the information according to our internal policies and procedures.
How does Layer3 TV protect customer information? Layer3 TV takes the security of our customers' personally identifiable information seriously. We have technical, administrative and physical safeguards in place to help protect against unauthorized access to, use or disclosure of customer information we collect or store. Layer3 TV takes such actions as are reasonably necessary to prevent unauthorized access by entities other than Layer3 TV to personally identifiable information. Employees are trained on the importance of protecting privacy and on the proper access to, use and disclosure of customer information. Layer3 TV uses industry standard security and/or encryption technology designed to secure certain sensitive personally identifiable information when it collects such information over the system. Layer3 TV restricts access to its customer database and secures the content by use of firewalls and other security methods. Under our practices and policies, access to sensitive personally identifiable information is authorized only for those who have a business need for such access such as ' those specifically authorized employees and agents of Layer3 TV, its affiliates, its service providers and other parties identified in the "Who sees the information collected

by Layer3 TV?" section above. However, we cannot guarantee that these practices will prevent every unauthorized attempt to access, use, or disclose personally identifiable information.
To preserve your privacy, you must also take active steps to guard your information. You and others who use your equipment must not give identifying information to strangers or others whom you are not certain have a right or need to the information. You also must take precautions to protect the security of any personally identifiable information that you may transmit over any home networks, wireless routers, wireless fidelity (WiFi) networks or similar devices by using encryption and other techniques designed to prevent unauthorized persons from intercepting or receiving any of your personally identifiable information. You are responsible for the security of your information when using unencrypted, open access or otherwise unsecured networks in your home. For more information on things you can do to help protect the privacy of your own information, visit www.onguardonline.gov.
Although we work hard to protect personal information that we collect and store, no program is 100% secure and we cannot guarantee that our safeguards will prevent every unauthorized attempt to access, use or disclose personal information. We maintain security and incident response plans to handle incidents involving unauthorized access to private information we collect or store.
If you become aware of a security issue, please contact us at 844-Layer3TV (844-529-3738). We will work with you to address any problems.
Can I see the information that Layer3 TV collects about me? We strive to keep our customer records as accurate as possible. You may correct or update your Layer3 TV customer information by calling one of our customer service representatives at call 844-Layer3TV (844-529-3738) or by accessing your account online at care.l3tv.com. You may also have a right under the Cable Act to see the personally identifiable information that Layer3 TV collects and maintains about you. The information Layer3 TV has about its customers is maintained at the local offices where service is provided, in our systems, and at our corporate headquarters. If you would like to view your information, please send a written request to: Layer3 TV, Inc., 1660 Wynkoop, Suite 800, Denver, Colorado 80202, Attn: Office of the General Counsel - Privacy Officer. Layer3 TV will be glad to make an appointment for you to come in to your local office during regular business hours to examine records which you are legally entitled to view. You will need to provide proper identification and you may examine records that contain personally identifiable information about you and no one else. If you believe any of your personally identifiable information is inaccurate, we will work with you to ensure that corrections are made. Layer3 TV reserves the right to charge you for the cost of photocopying any documents you request. You may also be able to access certain information about you or your account by telephone or accessing your account via the Customer Care Portal, depending upon the information you have provided.
Does Layer3 TV protect children's privacy? Layer3 TV recognizes that online service providers must be vigilant in protecting the safety and privacy of children online. We do not knowingly collect, use or disclose individually identifying information from children under the age of 13 without obtaining verifiable parental consent.
Regrettably, there are those who use the Internet to view, store and distribute child pornography or engage in other types of illegal activity involving children. Child pornography is subject to severe criminal penalties and using our network to view, store or distribute it violates our service contracts. The Layer3 TV network may not be used by customers in any manner for the storage, transmission or dissemination

of images containing child pornography and we will report any instances of such activity of which we become aware to the appropriate law enforcement authorities.
If you have a complaint about child pornography, the soliciting of children for sexual activity, or any other illegal or inappropriate activity involving children on a Layer3 TV service, report it to us by sending an email to privacy@layer3tv.com. Please include the words "child porn" in the subject line of your email. You can also make a report directly to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children through its CyberTipline located at cybertipline.org.
How does Layer3 TV use cookies and web beacons? A cookie is a small file that stores information in your browser on your computer. Layer3 TV places cookies in your browser that contain some of the information you provide when you register with us and when you set up a personalized service or customize your settings and preferences on our Customer Care Portal. Layer3 TV does not store highly sensitive personal information such as your password, email address or credit card number in cookies. Cookies enable Layer3 TV to summarize overall usage patterns for analysis.
A web beacon is an invisible graphic on a web page that is programmed to collect non-personally identifiable information about your use of a given site. Like cookies, web beacons allow Layer3 TV and its technology providers to summarize overall usage patterns for our analysis and provide personalized services. Layer3 TV does not share or provide personally identifiable information we may collect, such as names, e-mail addresses and phone numbers with our advertisers without your express permission. However, Layer3 TV may provide site usage information linked to your personally identifiable information to law enforcement or others in compliance with valid legal process or in other situations as stated in the "Who Sees the Information Collected by Layer3 TV?" paragraphs above.
You may opt-out of the cookies delivered by Layer3 TV on its websites by changing the setting on your browser. Depending on your privacy settings, please be aware that this may disable all cookies delivered to your browser, not just the ones delivered by Layer3 TV. Because a "Do Not Track" protocol has not yet been finalized, Layer3 TV's information collection and disclosure practices, and the choices that we provide to consumers, will continue to operate as described in this Privacy Policy, whether or not a Do Not Track signal is received.
What can I do if I believe Layer3 TV has violated my rights?
If you believe that your privacy rights have been violated, please contact us at privacy@layer3tv.com and we will work with you to address your concerns. If you believe that you have been aggrieved as a result of a violation of the Cable Act, you may enforce the limitations imposed by the Cable Act through a civil action in a United States district court seeking damages, attorney's fees, and litigation costs. Other rights and remedies may also be available to you under federal or other applicable laws.
What if I have any questions? If you have any questions about our privacy protections and policies, please contact us at privacy@layer3tv.com.

IMPORTANT NOTE:
This Privacy Policy does not apply to your use of any Layer3 TV website other than the Customer Care Portal. You should review the privacy policy applicable to each Layer3 TV sites, which are available via the "Website Visitor Privacy Policy" section of each Layer3 TV website. If we elect to use or disclose information that identifies you as an individual in a manner that is materially different from that stated in our Privacy Policy at the time we collected that information from you, we will give you a choice regarding such use or disclosure by appropriate means, which may include use of an opt-out mechanism.
Effective: April 24, 2017

