University of California

Sample Federal Privacy Notice

May 2015

University employees must follow the requirements of the Federal Privacy Act as set forth in policy and further explained in this document.

SAMPLE FEDERAL PRIVACY NOTICES
Section 7(b) of the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 provides that any Federal, State, or local government agency which requests an individual to disclose his or her social security account number shall inform that individual whether the disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, by what statutory or other authority such number is solicited, and what uses will be made of it. The notification requirements of Section 7(b) of the Act may be met in one of three ways.
OPTION 1 For requesting the mandatory disclosure of social security numbers to be used for record keeping systems established prior to January 1, 1975, pursuant to Federal or State statute or regulation.
Pursuant to the Federal Privacy Act of 1974, you are hereby notified that disclosure of your social security number is mandatory. Disclosure of the social security number is required pursuant to (Federal or State statue or regulation - provide citation.) The social security number is used to verify your identity.
OPTION 2 For requesting the mandatory disclosure of social security numbers to be used for record keeping systems established prior to January 1, 1975, pursuant to the authority of The Regents.
Pursuant to the Federal Privacy Act of 1974, you are hereby notified that disclosure of your social security number is mandatory. This record keeping system was established prior to January 1, 1975 pursuant to the authority of The Regents of University of California under Art. IX, Sec. 9 of the California Constitution. The social security number is used to verify your identity.
OPTION 3 For requesting the voluntary disclosure of social security numbers for record keeping systems established subsequent to January 1, 1975, pursuant to the authority of The Regents.
Pursuant to the Federal Privacy Act of 1974, you are hereby notified that disclosure of your social security number is voluntary. This record keeping system was established pursuant to the authority of The Regents of the University of California under Art. IX, Sec. 9 of the California Constitution. The social security number is used to verify your identity.

