PRIVACY STATEMENT
1. ABOUT THIS STATEMENT This statement is given you to help you understand the requirements of the law. The Christian CARE Association has for 50 years offered a unique service in the London Borough of Merton meeting the needs of families in poverty. It is a small charity, made up entirely of volunteers, and it runs five projects:
 Befriending: supporting families struggling with diverse problems  Family Support: delivering food fortnightly to give families `food security' as well as
responding to emergencies  The Furniture Project: the only remaining source of free furniture in the locality  The Baby, Children's and Household Project: distributing baby items, children's clothes
and bedding donations.  Children's Activities: an annual party, a seaside outing, sponsorship of a family holiday
and places at summer activity camps, children's birthdays are marked with cards and gifts, and the charity funds membership of out-of-school clubs and family day outings
In undertaking this work, we process personal data about our clients who receive support through our projects, about our volunteers and about our supporters. We are committed to protecting your privacy and take this responsibility very seriously. We therefore take care to safeguard it. The Christian CARE Association is the Data Controller. This statement outlines what data we collect, how we may use it, how we protect your data and your rights, and how you can exercise those rights.
2. WHY WE COLLECT YOUR DATA We collect personal data for many reasons - to provide you with services, to communicate with you and to send you information you have requested, to organise our volunteers and to administer donations and to obtain information to improve our services.
3. INFORMATION WE COLLECT We may collect some or all of the following personal information:
 your full name and those of family members  contact details ­ including your postal address, telephone number(s), and email address  date of birth  details of your case and the support we are giving you  donation history and Gift Aid details  other information you share with us, which may be collected from correspondence, emails,
paper forms, telephone and face-to-face conversations  photographs
We sometimes also collect sensitive data about individuals. This includes information about health, religion, ethnicity and nationality. We will only record this data where we have your explicit consent, unless we are permitted to do so in other circumstances for example under health and safety, safeguarding or data protection law.

4. USING YOUR PERSONAL DATA
For clients We will need to use your data in order to help you. We will keep all your information, including notes, letters and information given to us about you, in a confidential record that is specific to you. This ensures that we provide appropriate support. No volunteer is allowed access to our system or files unless they require this to provide a service to you. If you need the help of professionals, we will not pass on your information without your permission.
We may use your data for statistical reports. These statistics will not include any information that could be used to identify any individual.
For volunteers As part of the recruitment process we ask you to complete an application form, including details of two referees to whom we will automatically send reference requests. This data will be retained while you are volunteering with us. If your role requires it, we will also arrange for you to have an enhanced check from the Disclosure and Barring Service. Your name and DBS reference number will be stored separately from all other data we hold about you. We will use your information so that we can contact you for support, supervision and training while you are volunteering with Christian CARE.
For supporters Having obtained your consent to contact you by post, email or phone, we will keep you up-to-date with our activities. We will sent you an Annual Report and invitations to the AGM and to any open afternoons or fundraising events. If you are a Friend you will also receive Christmas and Easter mailings and prayer cards.
You can withdraw your consent to being a supporter at any time using the details in `Contact us' below. If you make any changes to your consent, we will update your record as soon as we possibly can. It may take up to 30 days for our systems to update and stop any postal or email communications from being sent to you.
5. OUR LEGAL BASIS FOR HOLDING AND PROCESSING PERSONAL DATA
We need a lawful basis to collect and use your personal data under data protection law. The law allows for six ways to process personal data (and additional ways for sensitive personal data). Three of these are relevant to the types of processing that we carry out. This includes information that is processed on the basis of:
 a person's consent  processing that is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation, for example to
process a Gift Aid declaration  Christian CARE's legitimate interests
Personal data may be legally collected and used if it is necessary for a legitimate interest of the organisation using the data, if its use is fair and does not adversely impact the rights of the individual concerned.
When we use your personal information, we will always consider if it is fair and balanced to do so and if it is within your reasonable expectations. We will balance your rights and our legitimate interests to ensure that we use your personal information in ways that are not unduly intrusive or unfair. Our legitimate interests include:
 Supplying you with help and support
 Delivery of our charitable purposes, statutory and financial reporting and other regulatory compliance purposes

 Administration and operational management: including responding to solicited enquiries, providing information, events management, recruitment requirements and the administration of volunteers
 Fundraising: including administering donations, sending thank you letters and analysis
If you would like more information on our uses of legitimate interests, or to change our use of your personal data in this manner, please get in touch with us using the details in `Contact us' below.
6. DISCLOSURE OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA
We will not share any of your personal data with any third party except where we are required to do so by law or it is necessary in a medical emergency or we have obtained your consent
We will never sell your personal data to a third-party organisation or share it for fundraising purposes.
7. SECURITY OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA
We use appropriate technical and organisational measures and precautions to protect your personal data and to prevent the loss, misuse or alteration of your personal data. Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our website. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access.
8. RETENTION OF YOUR DATA
Whatever your relationship with us, we will only store your information for a specified amount of time, as set out in our internal data retention policy. The length of time that data will be kept may depend on the reasons for which we are processing the data and on the law or regulations that the information falls under, such as financial regulations, Limitations Act, Health and Safety regulation. Subject to the above, we will typically store data relating to supporters for no more than seven years after their last donation, volunteers for 5 years after their last contact with the Association and people to whom we provide services for no more than 5 years after completion of those services.
Once the retention period has expired, the information will be confidentially disposed of or permanently deleted.
9. YOUR RIGHTS
You have many rights under data protection legislation. These include:
 Right of Access: You have the right to know what information we hold about you and to ask, in writing, to see your records. We will supply any information you ask for as soon as possible, but this may take up to 30 days. We will not charge you for this.
 Right to be informed: You have the right to be informed how your personal data will be used. This statement is intended to provide you with this information. You also have the right to be informed promptly if there is any breach of data security.
 Right to withdraw consent: Where we process your data based on your consent you can withdraw that consent at any time. To do this, or to discuss this right further with us, please contact us using the details in `Contact us' below.
 Right of erasure: In some cases, you have the right to be forgotten (i.e. to have your personal data deleted from our database). Where you have requested that we do not send you publicity material, we will need to keep some limited information to ensure that you are not contacted in the future.
 Right of rectification: If you believe our records are inaccurate, you have the right to ask for those records concerning you to be updated. To update your records, please get in touch with us using the details in `Contact us' below.

 Right to data portability: Where we are processing your personal data because you have given us your consent to do so, you have the right to request that the data is transferred to another service provider.
10. CONTACT US If you have any questions about this statement or feel that your rights (mentioned above) have been breached or would like more information, you can get in touch with us in the following ways:
By post: The Secretary Christian CARE Association Registered Office 7 Melbury Gardens London SW20 0DH
By email: christiancaremerton@gmail.com
By phone: 020 3302 0181
11. COMPLAINTS
If you are not satisfied with Christian CARE's response you have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office, Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire SK9 5AF.

