Rev. 07/2017 BR402832 RV600273 M-122663

FACTS Why?

WHAT DOES CAPITAL ONE« DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?
Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

What?

The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you have with us. This information can include:
ии Social Security number and income ии Account balances and payment history ии Account transactions and credit card or other debt

How?

All financial companies need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their customers' personal information; the reasons Capital One chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information
For our everyday business purposes Г such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus
For our marketing purposes Г to offer our products and services to you For joint marketing with other financial companies
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes Г information about your transactions and experiences For our affiliates' everyday business purposes Г information about your creditworthiness For our affiliates to market to you
For nonaffiliates to market to you

Does Capital One share?
YES
YES YES YES
YES YES YES

Can you limit this sharing?
NO
NO NO NO
YES YES YES

To limit our sharing

Call us toll free at 1-888-817-2970 and one of our representatives will update your privacy choices.
Please note: If you are a new customer, we can begin sharing your information 30 days from the date we sent this notice. If you're an existing customer and have opted out previously, you don't need to update your privacy choices again. When you are no longer our customer, we continue to share your information as described in this notice.

However, you can contact us at any time to limit our sharing.

Questions? Go to capitalone.com/privacy or capitalone.com/contactus.

Page 2

Who we are Who is providing this notice?

Our affiliates include financial companies with the Capital One, Chevy Chase, Onyx, Paribus, and Greenpoint names, such as Capital One Bank (USA), National Association; and Capital One, National Association.

What we do
How does Capital One protect my personal information?

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings.

How does Capital One collect my personal information?

We collect your personal information, for example, when you:
ии Open an account or deposit money ии Pay your bills or apply for a loan ии Use your credit or debit card We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies.

Why can't I limit all sharing?

Federal law gives you the right to limit only:
ии Sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes Г information about your creditworthiness
ии Affiliates from using your information to market to you ии Sharing for nonaffiliates to market to you State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing. See below for more on your rights under state law.

What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?

Your choices will apply to everyone on your account.

Definitions Affiliates
Nonaffiliates
Joint marketing

Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.
ии Our affiliates include financial companies with the Capital One, Chevy Chase, Onyx, Paribus, and Greenpoint names, such as Capital One Bank (USA), National Association; and Capital One, National Association.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.
ии Nonaffiliates we share with can include insurance companies, service providers, co-branded partners, retailers, data processors, and advertisers.
A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.
ии Our joint marketing partners include companies such as other banks and insurance companies.

Other important information
CA and VT Residents: We will not share your information with companies outside of Capital One, except for our everyday business purposes, for marketing our products and services to you, or with your consent.

VT Residents only: We will not disclose credit information about you within or outside the Capital One family of companies except as required or permitted by law.

NV Residents: Notice provided pursuant to state law. To be placed on our internal Do Not Call List, call 1-888-817-2970. If you would like more information about telemarketing practices, you may contact us at Capital One, P.O. Box 30285, Salt Lake City, UT 84130-0285 or webinfo@capitalone.com. For more on this Nevada law, contact Bureau of Consumer Protection, Office of the Nevada Attorney General, 555 E. Washington St., Suite 3900, Las Vegas, NV 89101; Phone number: 1-702-486-3132; e-mail: BCPINFO@ag.state.nv.us.

Telephone Communications: All telephone communications with us or our authorized agents may be monitored or recorded.

Е 2017 Capital One. Capital One is a federally registered service mark.

