MYPROGRESS
Privacy Notice
MyKnowledgeMap are committed to safeguarding the privacy of our, customers and their stakeholders who use the Myprogress assessment system, including administrators, students, faculty and external users who may be interacting with the system without their own authenticated account. This policy sets out how we will treat your personal information. This Privacy Policy does not cover the collection of personal information by any third party, including a customer or a stakeholder to whom an institution gives access to view assessment responses.
1. Information collected
In general, you can browse the Myprogressapp.com website without disclosing any personal information about yourself. All information provided is on a voluntary basis.
When you read, search or perform any other action on the public Myprogressapp.com website on our website or email to MyShowcase we may collect, store and use the following kinds of personal data:
 information about your computer and about your visits to and use of this website;  information that you provide to us for the purpose of registering your interest in
the Myprogress platform including but not limited to name, address, e-mail address, phone number;  any other information that you choose to send to us.
If you are a customer with a license to use Myprogress, this license includes an agreement that you have gained the appropriate informed consent to pass on any personal data you provide to MyKnowledgeMap to support the operation of the service. You should ensure that you understand the privacy implications of the operation of the service, which may vary depending on the purpose that you are using Myprogress for.
We respect children's privacy and we do not knowingly or intentionally collect personal information from children under age 13. If you are under the age of 13, please do not submit any personal information to us. You should seek guidance from a parent or guardian to assist you.
2. Use of your personal data
We respect your privacy and appreciate your business. At no time do we ever provide your personal or payment information to any third party vendor, associate or service provider unless absolutely necessary in order to provide a service that you have requested.
We may use your personal information to:
 administer the website and the Myprogress product;  enhance the Myprogress product;  enable your use of the services available as part of the Myprogress product;  enable our customers to provide educational services to you;  support you in fulfilling your role as an educator or observer in an education or
training context.
20 George Hudson Street, York, YO1 6WR, UK  Telephone: +44 (0)1904 659 465 Email:info@myknowledgemap.com  Web: www.myknowledgemap.com Registered in England no. 3954387  VAT no. 758 7602 89

If you have told us that you are a representative of the Customer, or if you are responsible for administering a Myprogress instance, we may also use your personal information to:
 send statements and invoices to you, and collect payments from you;  send you general (non-marketing) commercial communications.  send you email notifications which you have specifically requested;  send to you our newsletter and other marketing communications relating to our
business or the businesses of carefully selected third parties which we think may be of interest to you by email. You may unsubscribe at any time from our newsletter and other marketing communications by following the 'unsubscribe' instructions in any e-mail received or by e-mailing us at info@myshowcase.com. You have the right to as MyShowcase not to process your personal data for marketing purposes by e-mailing us at info@myshowcase.com.  deal with enquiries and complaints made by or about you relating to the website.
In addition, we may disclose information about you:
 to the extent that we are required to do so by law;  in connection with any legal proceedings or prospective legal proceedings;  in order to establish, exercise or defend our legal rights (including providing
information to a Customer for the purposes of fraud prevention or professional misconduct proceedings).
We may report aggregate, anonymised information to a purchaser (or prospective purchaser) of any business or asset which we are or are contemplating selling about our users' browsing actions and customers' usage patterns relating to the Myprogress service. This is statistical data that does not identify any individual.
Where you submit personal information for publication on our website, we will publish and otherwise use that information in accordance with the license you grant to us.
3. Security of your personal data
We will take reasonable technical and organisational precautions to prevent the loss, misuse or alteration of your personal information.
Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is inherently insecure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal information, we make no representation or warranties as to the security of your data transmitted to the website. Any transmission is at your own risk.
We warrant to Customers of the Myprogress service that will follow industry best practice in securing your personal data, encrypting your data in transit and securing it using rolebased authentication.
Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access. We will store all the personal information you provide on our secure firewall-protected server. All electronic transactions you make to or receive from us will be encrypted using SSL technology. MyKnowledgeMap Ltd holds your personal data in accordance with the security provisions of the Data Protection legislation.
20 George Hudson Street, York, YO1 6WR, UK  Telephone: +44 (0)1904 659 465 Email:info@myknowledgemap.com  Web: www.myknowledgemap.com Registered in England no. 3954387  VAT no. 758 7602 89

4. Managing your data
We will take reasonable steps to create an accurate record of any personal information you have submitted through this website. However, we do not assume responsibility for confirming the ongoing accuracy of your personal information.
Where a customer also has access to manage the personal information contained in the service, our mutual responsibilities form part of the terms of use accompanying the license--please contact your institution if you would like to understand how they process the data held in their Myprogress instance.
If you are a user with an account in a Myprogress instance, you can see or edit the personal contact information that you have supplied and see recent assessment responses by visiting your account and your account preferences page.
5. Data Protection
MyKnowledgeMap Ltd complies with the Data Protection Act. You may instruct us to provide you with the personal data that we hold about you subject to the payment of a fee fixed at 10.00 (ten pounds sterling) and a written, signed request to: MyKnowledgeMap Ltd, 20 George Hudson Street, York, YO1 6WR, UK
6. Cookies
Myprogressapp.com and the the Myprogress application use cookies so that we can recognise your computer when you access the service and log into your account with your user name and password.
A cookie consists of information sent by a web server to a web browser, and stored by the browser. The information is then sent back to the server each time the browser requests a page from the server. This enables the web server to identify and track the web browser. We may use both "session" cookies and "persistent" cookies on the website.
In some cases, our third-party service providers may use cookies on our sites. We have no access to or control over these cookies. This privacy statement covers the use of cookies by MyShowcase Ltd only, and does not cover the use of cookies by third parties.
We use Google Analytics to analyse the use of the Myprogressapp.com website. We also provide customers with the ability to enable Google Analytics and other analytics services on their Myprogress installation, but we have no control over or access to customer analytics. Google Analytics generates statistical and other information about website use by means of cookies, which are stored on users' computers. The information generated relating to our website is used to create reports about the use of the website. Google Analytics uses only first-party cookies. This means that all cookies set by Google Analytics for our website send data only to the servers for our website. The data cannot be altered or retrieved by any service on another website. Google's privacy policy is available at: http://www.google.com/privacypolicy.html.
Most browsers allow you to refuse to accept cookies. For example, in Internet Explorer you can refuse all cookies by clicking "Tools", "Internet Options", "Privacy", and selecting "Block all cookies" using the sliding selector. This will, however, have a negative impact upon the usability of many websites.
20 George Hudson Street, York, YO1 6WR, UK  Telephone: +44 (0)1904 659 465 Email:info@myknowledgemap.com  Web: www.myknowledgemap.com Registered in England no. 3954387  VAT no. 758 7602 89

7. Links to other websites This website and our e-mail messages may contain links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy policies or practices of other websites. This Privacy Policy applies only to the information we collect on this website. We encourage you to read the privacy policies of these other websites. 8. International data transfers Information that we collect may be stored and processed in and transferred between any of the countries in which we operate in order to enable us to use the information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. You expressly agree to such transfers of personal information. If you are accessing the site and service within the European Economic Area, information which you provide will not be transferred to countries which do not have data protection laws equivalent to those in force in the European Economic Area. 9. Revisions We may update this Privacy Policy from time-to-time. Any changes to this Privacy Policy will be uploaded as a new Privacy Policy on our website with a revised "Effective" date at the top of this policy. Since we may make changes at any time without notifying you, we suggest that you should check this page occasionally to ensure you are happy with the revised Privacy Policy. 10. Contact If you have any questions, comments, requests, concerns or disputes regarding this Privacy Policy or our treatment of your personal data please write to us by email to info@myknowledgemap.com or by post to Company Secretary, MyKnowledgeMap Ltd, 20 George Hudson Street, York, YO1 6WR, UK.
20 George Hudson Street, York, YO1 6WR, UK  Telephone: +44 (0)1904 659 465 Email:info@myknowledgemap.com  Web: www.myknowledgemap.com Registered in England no. 3954387  VAT no. 758 7602 89

