Rev. 07/2017

FACTS
Why?

WHAT DOES Lake Michigan Credit Union DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?
Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

What?

The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you

have with us. This information can include:

 Social Security number and Income

 Account Balances and Payment History

 Credit History

and Credit Scores

How?

All financial companies need to share members' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their members' personal information; the reasons Lake Michigan Credit Union chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information For our everyday business purposes ­ such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus

Does Lake Michigan Credit Union share? Can you limit this sharing?

Y

N

For our marketing purposes ­ to offer our products and services to you

Y

Y

For joint marketing with other financial companies
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes ­ information about your transactions and experiences
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes ­ Information about your creditworthiness
For our affiliates to market to you For nonaffiliates to market to you

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

WE DON'T SHARE

Y

Y

N

WE DON'T SHARE

To limit our sharing
Questions?

· Call 616-242-9790 ­ our menu will prompt you through your choice(s) or · Visit us online: www.lmcu.org ­ "Contact Us", then secure contact form. Please note: If you are a new customer, we can begin sharing your information 30 days from the date we sent this notice. When you are no longer our customer, we continue to share your information as described in this notice. However, you can contact us at any time to limit our sharing.
Call 616-242-9790 or go to www.lmcu.org

Who we are

Who is providing this notice?

Lake Michigan Credit Union

What we do
How does Lake Michigan Credit Union protect my personal information?
How does Lake Michigan Credit Union collect my personal information?

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access

and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law.

These measures include computer safeguards and secured files

and buildings.

We collect your personal information, for example, when you

 Open an account

or Deposit Money

 Pay your bills

or Apply for a loan

 Use your credit or debit card

Why can't I limit all sharing?

We also collect your personal information from others such as credit bureaus, affiliates or other companies. Federal law gives you the right to limit only
 sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes - information about your creditworthiness
 affiliates from using your information to market to you  sharing for nonaffiliates to market to you

What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?
Definitions
Affiliates

State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing. Your choice will apply to everyone on your account.
Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.
 Lake Michigan Financial Group (including Lake Michigan Insurance Agency)

Nonaffiliates

Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.
 LMCU does not share with nonaffiliates.

Joint Marketing

A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.
 Our joint marketing partners include insurance and student loan companies.

Other Important information

What members can do to help: Protect your account numbers, card numbers, and passwords. Use caution in revealing account numbers, social security numbers, etc., to other persons.

