Office for Product Safety and Standards Privacy Notice: 01/10/2018 Version 2
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
Office for Product Safety & Standards
Privacy Notice
The Office for Product Safety and Standards (the Office) is part of the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). This privacy notice will help you to understand what personal information the Office collects about you, how the Office uses this personal information, and what rights you have regarding your personal information. It is important that you read this notice, together with any other privacy notice that is provided to you on specific occasions when we are collecting or processing your personal information, so that you are aware of how and why we are using it. This notice applies to individuals who are external to the Office. This notice does not form part of any contract. This notice can be updated at any time; we will inform you if the way we handle your personal information changes. Personal data is any information that can be used to identify a living individual, either on its own, or in combination with other pieces of data. Examples of personal information include your name and address. Data processing includes the collection, use, and storage of data. The data controller is BEIS. 1. The information types to be processed Most of the information processed by the Office relates to businesses and is not personal in nature and is not associated with a living individual. This is not covered by the 2018 Data Protection Act. The personal information we process for each of our core functions is limited to that listed in Table 1.
1 of 6

Office for Product Safety and Standards Privacy Notice: 01/10/2018 Version 2

2. The purposes of processing your information Table 1: Purposes and the information types processed

Purpose Enforcement activity including the compilation of registers of regulated businesses and their use to contact businesses whilst exercising its authority as the Office for Product Safety and Standards
Maintaining the register of Primary Authority relationships
Managing a variety of events for outside delegates
Marketing and other communications
Complaints and appeals

Information Types
Contact information such as name, email address and direct telephone numbers for businesses covered by regulations including Product Safety regulations
In some circumstances, the Investigations team may process additional information under Part 4 of the 2018 Data Protection Act, in accordance with the National Intelligence Model
Contact names for participating companies, coordinating bodies and Primary Authorities
Contact emails for participating companies, coordinating bodies and Primary Authorities
Contact phone numbers for participating companies, coordinating bodies and Primary Authorities
Names
Email address
Postal address
Phone details
Information about your role and professional activities
Contact details for an emergency contact for residential events
Food preferences/allergies
Contact information such as name, email address and direct telephone numbers
Contact names for complainants and appellants
Contact emails for complainants and appellants
Contact phone numbers for complainants and appellants
Postal addresses for complainants and appellants

2 of 6

Office for Product Safety and Standards Privacy Notice: 01/10/2018 Version 2

Purpose

Information Types

Managing relationships with other regulators

Contact names, emails and addresses of staff at other regulators
Contact names, emails and addresses of staff at regulated businesses where there is joint regulatory responsibility

Procurement and managing relationships with suppliers
For this purpose, the Office operates as an information processor, processing your personal information on behalf of the data controllers who are either UKSBS or BEIS

Contact names for suppliers and individual staff members
Contact emails for suppliers and individual staff members
Contact phone numbers for suppliers and individual staff members
Postal addresses for sole trader suppliers

Heat metering and billing notification

Contact names for suppliers and individual staff members
Contact emails for suppliers and individual staff members
Contact phone numbers for suppliers and individual staff members
Postal addresses for sole trader suppliers

3. The lawful bases for processing your information
The Office processes your personal information for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the official authority given to it, as outlined in Chapter 2 (Lawfulness of processing) Section 8 of the Data Protection Act 2018.
This may include contacting you by newsletters, regulatory updates, or surveys, where the material contained is relevant to your professional role, or if you are a member of the public, contacting you to report progress in relation to the matter that you contacted us about.
If you attend one of events we may additionally collect some information for the purpose of protecting your vital interests such as emergency contact details and food allergies.
If we need to process your personal information for another purpose not in the public interest or in the exercise of the official authority given to it, we will seek your consent for processing before beginning processing.
4. Your rights
You have the following rights regarding your personal information:
 you have the right to request access to your information  you have the right to correct your information if it is incorrect  you have the right to object to your information being processed  you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where BEIS is relying on
consent to process your personal information.

3 of 6

Office for Product Safety and Standards Privacy Notice: 01/10/2018 Version 2
If you wish to exercise your rights, please contact the Data Protection Officer. A list of your rights under the Data Protection Act 2018 is accessible at: https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-the-general-data-protectionregulationgdpr/individual-rights
a. The right of access You have the right to know what personal information we hold about you. You can request this information verbally or in writing. We will respond within one month to any such request and will not charge a fee to deal with a request in most circumstances.
b. The right to withdraw consent You have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where BEIS is relying on consent to process your personal information. If you wish to exercise your right, please contact the Data Protection Officer, who will advise on the legal basis for processing. Where the basis is consent or the purpose is marketing, processing will cease from that moment.
c. The right to be forgotten You have the right to ask for your personal information to be withdrawn either:
 when the basis is consent, and the information held is not necessary for further processing based on any other legal grounds
 when the information processed on any other legal grounds is not necessary for further processing.
If you wish to exercise your right, please contact the Data Protection Officer. d. The right to restrict processing
You have the right to ask for your personal information to be stored without further processing whilst other requests regarding your information processing are investigated. If you wish to exercise your right, please contact the Data Protection Officer.
5. If you do not provide your personal information
For matters where you are not legally obliged to provide personal information, and you choose not to, then the Office may not be able to administer your request. In the case of information collected to protect your vital interests by event attendees, we may not be able to provide necessary care in the event of a medical emergency. If you are legally obliged to provide personal information, you may be committing an offence if you refuse.
6. Data transfers
Your personal information may be shared with other regulatory authorities including other Market Surveillance Authorities whose legal basis for processing is also a public duty. Your personal information is shared using secure transfer methods and will not be transferred to any additional third parties.
4 of 6

Office for Product Safety and Standards Privacy Notice: 01/10/2018 Version 2
The Office does not routinely transfer personal information outside the EEA. In specific circumstances, should this be necessary, we would notify you before any such transfer occurred, and all processing would be subject to the safeguards specified within the 2018 Data Protection Act.
7. How long we keep your personal information
We retain personal information for the duration of the regulation activity, or other purpose, and normally for 12 months afterwards. We will retain it beyond this period only when required to do so by a legal obligation.
We conduct an annual review to ensure that we do not retain personal information longer than is necessary and lawful.
In the event of consent being withdrawn, or the activity may be considered as direct marketing, where information is processed on that basis, processing will cease immediately.
8. The use of automated decision making
Your personal information is not used in any automated decision making (making a decision solely by automated means without any human involvement) or profiling (automated processing of personal information to evaluate certain conditions about an individual).
9. Change of purpose
We will process your personal information for the purpose for which we collected it. If we process your personal information for another purpose that we reasonably consider to be compatible with the original purpose, we will notify you and explain the legal basis which allows us to do so.
Please note that we might process your personal information without your knowledge or consent, where processing is based on another legal basis and where this is required or permitted by law.
10. Changes to this privacy notice
We reserve the right to update this privacy notice at any time, and we will publish a new privacy notice when we make any substantial changes and publicise the changes via our website.
We will also notify you in other ways from time to time about the processing of your personal information.
11. How to lodge a complaint
If you have a complaint regarding the processing of your personal information, then please contact the Data Protection Officer at the organisations listed above.
You also have the right to lodge a complaint with the ICO (supervisory authority) at any time. Should you wish to exercise that right full details are available at:
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-the-general-data-protectionregulationgdpr/individual-rights
5 of 6

Office for Product Safety and Standards Privacy Notice: 01/10/2018 Version 2
12. Data controllers Unless otherwise stated below, the data controller for the personal information covered in this document is BEIS. The Data Protection Officer for BEIS can be contacted using the contact details below: The Data Protection Officer Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) 1 Victoria Street London SW1H 0ET Phone Number: 020 7215 5000 Email: dataprotectionofficer@beis.gov.uk Where the Office acts as an information processor, you should first contact the Data Protection Officer at the following organisations: For Notification data relating to any heat network where the majority of final customers of the network are located in Scotland, the data controllers are BEIS and the Directorate for Energy and Climate Change of the Scottish Government. The Data Protection Officer for the Scottish Government can be contacted at: Data Protection Officer, Victoria Quay, Commercial Street, Edinburgh, EH6 6QQ Email: DataProtectionOfficer@gov.scot For procurement administered by UKSBS: Data Protection Officer UK Shared Business Services Polaris House North Star Avenue SWINDON Wiltshire SN2 1FF
6 of 6

