Website Privacy Policy for Crosswalk Ministries USA, Inc. ("Crosswalk")
This Privacy Policy applies to the Crosswalk Ministries USA, Inc. ("Website") and information collected through this Website. By using the Crosswalk website, you accept and agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy ("Policy"). If you do not agree to this Policy, please do not use this Website.
What Information Does Crosswalk Collect About Website Visitors?
Crosswalk may automatically collect information about how you use this Website through the use of cookies, web beacons, and other technologies. This information does not identify you personally, and we do not use this information to track or record information about individuals through this Website.
How does Crosswalk use or share my information?
We may use the data collected through these websites for a variety of purposes including to better understand how people use each website, to prevent fraud, and to improve the effectiveness, security and integrity of the Website. We may also use the data to protect and enforce our agreements and property rights, to comply with court orders, legal processes or respond to regulatory or other similar requests.
Crosswalk is not in the business of selling information about its Website visitors. We do share information with third parties under the following circumstances:
 The person submitting the information authorizes us to share it  Vendors and agents are performing services on behalf of Crosswalk that is directly
related to operation of this Website  We are required by law to do so.
Data storage and security
Crosswalk does not retain information about visitors to the Website. Remember that no transmission or electronic storage of information is guaranteed to be secure. We therefore urge you to always use caution when transmitting information over the Internet.
Links to other websites
You may be able to access third party websites through links available on Crosswalk's Website. This Policy does not apply to the privacy practices or the content of any third party sites. When you link to another site, you are subject to the privacy policy of the new site.
Changes to the Policy
If Crosswalk makes changes to its Policy, those changes will be posted on the Website.

Children
Crosswalk does not knowingly collect information from children under the age of 13. We encourage parents and legal guardians to monitor their children's Internet usage, including instructing their children never to provide information on this Site without their permission.
Information for our California users
Website data collection: We don't knowingly allow other parties to collect personally identifiable information about your online activities over time and across third-party websites when you use our Website unless we have your consent.
Do Not Track notice: We don't currently respond to Do Not Track and similar signals. Please go to All About Do Not Track for more information.
Any Website visitor who wishes to request further information about our compliance with these requirements, or who has questions or concerns about our privacy practices and policies, can email us at info@crosswalkusa.org, or write to us at P.O. Box 1613, McDonough GA 30253.
Contact Us
For more information about this Policy, or for help with questions, including how you can review, correct or remove your information, please contact us.
 Email us at info@crosswalkusa.org  Write to us at P.O. Box 1613, McDonough GA 30253

