862-082 (Rev. 11/17) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

Effective Date: February 1, 2018
NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SAN FRANCISCO UCSF HEALTH THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW HEALTH INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED AND DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET ACCESS
TO THIS INFORMATION. PLEASE REVIEW IT CAREFULLY.
NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICE

UCSF Health
UCSF Health is one of the health care components of the University of California. The University of California health care components consist of the UC medical centers, the UC medical groups, clinics and physician offices, the UC schools of medicine and other UC health professional schools, departments engaged in clinical care, the student health service areas on some campuses, employee health units on some campuses, and the administrative and operational units that are part of the health care components of the University of California.

Our Pledge Regarding

Your Health Information

UCSF Health is committed to protecting medical,

1

mental health and personal information about you

("Health Information"). We are required by law to

maintain the privacy of your Health Information; pro-

vide you information about our legal duties and pri-

vacy practices; and inform you of your rights and the

ways in which we may use Health Information and

disclose it to other entities and persons.

How We May Use and Disclose Health
Information About You
The following sections describe different ways that we may use and disclose your Health Information. Some information; such as certain drug and alcohol information, HIV information, genetic information and mental health information; is entitled to special restrictions related to its use and disclosure. Not every use or disclosure will be listed. All of the ways we are permitted to use and disclose information, however, will fall within one of the following categories. Other uses and disclosures not described in this Notice will be made only if we have your written authorization.

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES

How We May Use and Disclose Health

Information About You (cont.)

For Treatment. We may use Health Information about you to

provide you with medical and mental health treatment or ser-

vices. We may disclose Health Information about you to doc-

tors, nurses, technicians, students, or other UCSF Health

personnel who are involved in taking care of you at UCSF

Health. For example, a doctor treating you for a broken leg

may need to know if you have diabetes because diabetes

may slow the healing process. A doctor treating you for a

mental condition may need to know what medications you

are currently taking, because the medications may affect

what other medications may be prescribed to you. We may

also share Health Information about you with other non-

UCSF Health providers. The disclosure of your Health Infor-

mation to non-UCSF Health providers may be done electron-

2

ically through a health information exchange that allows

providers involved in your care to access some of your

UCSF Health records to coordinate services for you.

For Payment. We may use and disclose Health Information about you so that the treatment and services you receive at UCSF Health or from other entities, such as an ambulance company, may be billed to and payment may be collected from you, an insurance company or a third party. For example, we may need to give information to your health plan about surgery or therapy you received at UCSF Health so your health plan will pay us or reimburse you for the surgery or therapy. We may also tell your health plan about a proposed treatment to determine whether your plan will pay for the treatment.

For Health Care Operations. We may use and disclose Health Information about you for our business operations. For example, your Health Information may be used to review the quality and safety of our services, or for business planning, management and administrative services. We may contact you about alternative treatment options for you or about other benefits or services we provide. We may also use and disclose your health information to an outside company that

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

performs services for us such as accreditation, legal, computer or auditing services. These outside companies are called "business associates" and are required by law to keep your Health Information confidential. We may also disclose information to doctors, nurses, technicians, medical and other students, and other UCSF Health personnel for performance improvement and educational purposes.

Appointment Reminders. We may contact you to remind you that you have an appointment at UCSF Health.

Fundraising Activities. We may contact you, using the

contact information you have provided to us, to provide

information about UCSF Health sponsored activities,

including fundraising programs and events. We may use

contact information, such as your name, address and

phone number, date of birth, physician name, the outcome

of your care, department where you received services and

3

the dates you received treatment or services at UCSF

Health. You may opt-out of receiving fundraising

information for UCSF Health by contacting UCSF at

HIPAAOptOut@ucsf.edu, or 1-888-804-4722, or Records

Manager, UCSF, Box 0248, San Francisco, CA 94143-0248.

Hospital Directory. If you are hospitalized, we may include certain limited information about you in the hospital directory. This is so your family, friends and clergy can visit you in the hospital and generally know how you are doing. This information may include your name, location in the hospital, your general condition (e.g., fair, stable, etc.) and your religious affiliation. The directory information, except for your religious affiliation, may also be released to people who ask for you by name. Your religious affiliation may be given to members of the clergy, such as ministers or rabbis, even if they don't ask for you by name. You have the opportunity to limit the release of directory information by telling UCSF Health Admissions Department at the time of your hospitalization.

Our disclosure of this information about you if you are hospitalized in a psychiatric hospital will be more limited.

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES

How We May Use and Disclose Health Information About You (cont.)

Individuals Involved in Your Care or Payment for Your Care. We may release medical information to anyone involved in your medical care, e.g., a friend, family member, personal representative, or any individual you identify. We may also give information to someone who helps pay for your care. We may also tell your family or friends about your general condition and that you are in the hospital.

Disaster Relief Efforts. We may disclose Health Information about you to an entity assisting in a disaster relief effort so that others can be notified about your condition, status and location.

Research. The University of California is a research institu-

tion. We may disclose Health Information about you for

4

research purposes, subject to the confidentiality provisions

of state and federal law. All research projects involving

patients or the information about living patients conducted

by the University of California must be approved through a

special review process to protect patient safety, welfare and

confidentiality.

In addition to disclosing Health Information for research, researchers may contact you, using the contact information you have provided to us, regarding your interest in participating in certain research studies. Researchers may only contact you if they have been given approval to do so by the special review process. You will only become a part of one of these research projects if you agree to do so and sign a specific permission form called an Authorization. When approved through a special review process, other studies may be performed using your Health Information without requiring your authorization. These studies will not affect your treatment or welfare, and your Health Information will continue to be protected.

As Required By Law. We will disclose Health Information about you when required to do so by federal or state law. This includes releases to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which oversees HIPAA regulations.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

To Prevent a Serious Threat to Health or Safety. We may use and disclose Health Information about you when necessary to prevent or lessen a serious and imminent threat to your health and safety or the health and safety of the public or another person. Any disclosure would be to someone able to help stop or reduce the threat.

Organ and Tissue Donation. If you are an organ donor, we may release your Health Information to organizations that obtain, bank or transplant organs, eyes or tissue, as necessary to facilitate organ or tissue donation and transplantation.

Military and Veterans. If you are or were a member of the armed forces, we may release Health Information about you to military command authorities as authorized or required by law.

Workers' Compensation. We may use or disclose Health

Information about you for Workers' Compensation or similar programs as authorized or required by law. These programs

5

provide benefits for work-related injuries or illness.

Public Health Disclosures. We may disclose Health Information about you for public health activities such as:

 preventing or controlling disease (such as cancer and tuberculosis), injury or disability;

 reporting vital events such as births and deaths;
 reporting child abuse or neglect;
 reporting adverse events or surveillance related to food, medications or defects or problems with products;
 notifying persons of recalls, repairs or replacements of products they may be using;
 notifying a person who may have been exposed to a disease or may be at risk of contracting or spreading a disease or condition;
Abuse and Neglect Reporting. We may disclose your Health Information to a government authority that is permitted by law to receive reports of abuse, neglect or domestic violence.

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES

How We May Use and Disclose Health Information About You (cont.)

Health Oversight Activities. We may disclose Health Information to governmental, licensing, auditing, and accrediting agencies as authorized or required by law.

Lawsuits and Other Legal Proceedings. We may disclose Health Information to courts, attorneys and court employees in the course of conservatorship, writs and certain other judicial or administrative proceedings. We may also disclose Health Information about you in response to a court or administrative order, or in response to a subpoena, discovery request, warrant, or other lawful process.

Law Enforcement. If asked to do so by law enforcement,

and as authorized or required by law, we may release Health

6

Information:

 To identify or locate a suspect, fugitive, material witness, certain escapees, or missing person;

 About a suspected victim of a crime if, under certain limited circumstances, we are unable to obtain the person's agreement;

 About a death suspected to be the result of criminal conduct;

 About criminal conduct at UCSF Health; and

 In case of a medical emergency, to report a crime; the location of the crime or victims; or the identity, description or location of the person who committed the crime.

Inmates. If you are an inmate of a correctional institution or under the custody of law enforcement officials, we may release Health Information about you to the correctional institution as authorized or required by law.

Coroners, Medical Examiners and Funeral Directors. We may disclose medical information to a coroner or medical examiner. This may be necessary, for example, to identify a deceased person or determine cause of death. We may also disclose medical information about patients of UCSF Health to funeral directors as necessary to carry out their duties.

National Security and Intelligence Activities. As required by law, we may disclose Health Information about you to authorized federal officials for intelligence, counterintelligence, and other national security activities.

Protective Services for the President and Others. As

required by law, we may disclose Health Information about

you to authorized federal officials so they may conduct

special investigations or provide protection to the President,

other authorized persons or foreign heads of state.

Psychotherapy Notes. Psychotherapy notes means notes

7

recorded (in any medium) by a health care provider who is a

mental health professional documenting or analyzing the

contents of conversation during a private counseling session

or a group, joint, or family counseling session and that are

separated from the rest of the individual's medical record.

Psychotherapy notes have additional protections under federal law and most uses or disclosures of psychotherapy require your written authorization.

Marketing or Sale of Health Information. Uses and disclosures of your Health Information for marketing purposes or any sale of your Health Information are strictly limited and require your written authorization.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES

Other Uses and Disclosures of Health Information
Other uses and disclosures of Health Information not covered by this Notice will be made only with your written authorization. If you authorize us to use or disclose your Health Information, you may revoke that authorization, in writing, at any time. However, the revocation will not be effective for information that we have already used and disclosed in reliance on the authorization.
Your Rights Regarding Your Health Information
Your Health Information is the property of UCSF Health. You have the following rights regarding the Health Information we maintain about you:
8
Right to Inspect and Copy. With certain exceptions, you have the right to inspect and/or receive a copy of your Health Information. If we have the information in electronic format then you have the right to get your Health Information in electronic format if it is possible for us to do so. If not we will work with you to agree on a way for you to get the information electronically or as a paper copy.
You may request that a copy of your Health Information be released to a third party that you designate.
To inspect and/or to receive a copy of your Health Information, you must submit your request in writing to Health Information Management Services, UCSF Medical Center, 400 Parnassus Ave., Room A-88, San Francisco, CA 941430308. If you request a copy of the information, there is a fee for these services.
We may deny your request to inspect and/or to receive a copy in certain limited circumstances. If you are denied access to Health Information, in most cases, you may have the denial reviewed. Another licensed health care professional chosen by UCSF Health will review your request and the denial. The person conducting the review will not be the
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

person who denied your request. We will comply with the outcome of the review.

Right to Request an Amendment or Addendum. If you feel that Health Information we have about you is incorrect or incomplete, you may ask us to amend the information or add an addendum (addition to the record). You have the right to request an amendment or addendum for as long as the information is kept by or for UCSF Health.

Amendment. To request an amendment, your request must

be made in writing and submitted to Patient Relations, UCSF

Medical Center, 350 Parnassus Ave., Suite 150, Box 1299,

San Francisco, CA 94143-1299, phone 1-415-353-1936, fax

1-415-353-8556. You must be specific about the information

that you believe to be incorrect or incomplete and you must

provide a reason that supports the request.

We may deny your request for an amendment if it is not in

9

writing, we cannot determine from the request the informa-

tion you are asking to be changed or corrected, or your

request does not include a reason to support the change or

addition. In addition, we may deny your request if you ask us

to amend information that:

 Was not created by UCSF Health;

 Is not part of the Health Information kept by or for UCSF Health;

 Is not part of the information which you would be permitted to inspect and copy; or

 UCSF Health believes to be accurate and complete.

Addendum. To submit an addendum, the addendum must be made in writing and submitted to Patient Relations, UCSF Medical Center, 350 Parnassus Ave., Suite 150, Box 1299, San Francisco, CA 94143-1299, phone 1-415-353-1936, fax 1-415-353-8556. An addendum must not be longer than 250 words per alleged incomplete or incorrect item in your record.

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES

Your Rights Regarding Your Health Information (cont).

Right to an Accounting of Disclosures. You have the right to receive a list of certain disclosures we have made of your Health Information.

To request this accounting of disclosures, you must submit

your request in writing to Health Information Management

Services, UCSF Medical Center, 400 Parnassus Ave., Room

A-88, San Francisco, CA 94143-0308. Your request must

state a time period that may not be longer than the six previ-

ous years. You are entitled to one accounting within any 12-

month period at no cost. If you request a second accounting

within that 12-month period, there will be a charge for the

cost of compiling the accounting. We will notify you of the

cost involved and you may choose to withdraw or modify

10

your request at that time before any costs are incurred.

Right to Request Restrictions. You have the right to request a restriction or limitation on the Health Information we use or disclose about you for treatment, payment or health care operations. You also have the right to request a limit on the Health Information we disclose about you to someone who is involved in your care or the payment for your care, such as a family member or friend.

To request a restriction, you must make your request in writing to Patient Relations, UCSF Medical Center, 350 Parnassus Ave., Suite 150, Box 1299, San Francisco, CA 941431299, phone 1-415-353-1936, fax 1-415-353-8556. In your request, you must tell us (1) what information you want to limit; (2) whether you want to limit our use, disclosure or both; and (3) to whom you want the limits to apply, for example, only to you and your spouse. We are not required to agree to your request except in the limited circumstance described below. If we do agree, our agreement must be in writing, and we will comply with your request unless the information is needed to provide you emergency care.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

We are required to agree to a request not to share your information with your health plan if the following conditions are met:

 We are not otherwise required by law to share the information

 The information would be shared with your insurance company for payment purposes

 You pay the entire amount due for the health care item or service out of your own pocket or someone else pays the entire amount for you

Right to Request Confidential Communications. You have

the right to request that we communicate with you about

your Health Information in a certain way or at a certain loca-

tion. For example, you may ask that we contact you only at

home or only by mail.

11

To request confidential medical communications, you must make your request in writing to Patient Relations, UCSF Medical Center, 350 Parnassus Ave., Suite 150, Box 1299, San Francisco, CA 94143-1299, phone 1-415-353-1936, fax 1-415-353-8556. We will accommodate all reasonable requests. Your request must specify how or where you wish to be contacted.

Right to a Paper Copy of This Notice. You have the right to a paper copy of this Notice. You may ask us to give you a copy of this Notice at any time. Even if you have agreed to receive this Notice electronically, you are still entitled to a paper copy of this Notice.

Copies of this Notice are available throughout UCSF Health, or you may obtain a copy at our website, http://www.ucsfhealth.org.

Right to be Notified of a Breach. You have the right to be notified if we or one of our Business Associates discovers a breach of unsecured Health Information about you.

NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES

Changes to UCSF Health's
Privacy Practice and This Notice
We reserve the right to change UCSF Health's privacy practices and this Notice. We reserve the right to make the revised or changed Notice effective for Health Information we already have about you as well as any information we receive in the future. We will post a copy of the current Notice throughout UCSF Health. In addition, at any time you may request a copy of the current Notice in effect.

Questions or Complaints

If you have any questions about this Notice, please

contact Patient Relations, UCSF Medical Center, 350

Parnassus Ave., Suite 150, Box 1299, San Francisco,

12

CA 94143-1299, phone 1-415-353-1936, fax 1-415-

353-8556. If you believe your privacy rights have

been violated, you may file a complaint with UCSF

Health or with the Secretary of the Department of

Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights. To

file a written complaint with UCSF Health contact

Patient Relations, UCSF Medical Center, 350 Parnas-

sus Ave., Suite 150, Box 1299, San Francisco, CA

94143-1299, phone 1-415-353-1936, fax 1-415-353-

8556. You will not be penalized for filing a complaint.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO

