1
Privacy Notice: Employees / Volunteers* This Privacy Notice tell you how we will use and store the information you give us when you apply to work or volunteer at The Hamlet.
Data controller: The Hamlet Centre Trust (working name: The Hamlet) Data protection officer: Pauline Morgan, Chief Executive The Hamlet collects and processes personal data relating its employees to manage the employment relationship. The Hamlet is committed to being transparent about how it collects and uses that data and to meeting its data protection obligations. What information does The Hamlet collect? The Hamlet collects and processes a range of information about you. This includes:
 your name, address and contact details, including email address and telephone number, date of birth and gender;
 the terms and conditions of your employment;  details of your qualifications, skills, experience and employment history, including start
and end dates, with previous employers and with The Hamlet;  information about your remuneration, including entitlement to benefits such as
pensions or insurance cover;  details of your bank account and national insurance number;  information about your marital status, next of kin, dependants and emergency
contacts;  information about your nationality and entitlement to work in the UK;  information about your criminal record;  details of your schedule (days of work and working hours) and attendance at work;  details of periods of leave taken by you, including holiday, sickness absence, family
leave and sabbaticals, and the reasons for the leave;  details of any disciplinary or grievance procedures in which you have been involved,
including any warnings issued to you and related correspondence;  assessments of your performance, including appraisals, performance reviews and
ratings, performance improvement plans and related correspondence;  information about medical or health conditions, including whether you have a
disability for which The Hamlet needs to make reasonable adjustments; and
Privacy Notice GDPR Compliant March 2018 PM

2
 equal opportunities monitoring information including information about your ethnic origin, sexual orientation and religion or belief. (This is collected at recruitment and is anonymous.)
The Hamlet may collect this information in a variety of ways. For example, data might be collected through application forms, CVs or resumes; obtained from your passport or other identity documents such as your driving licence; from forms completed by you at the start of or during employment (such as benefit nomination forms); from correspondence with you; or through interviews, meetings or other assessments.
In some cases, The Hamlet may collect personal data about you from third parties, such as references supplied by former employers, information from employment background check providers, information from credit reference agencies and information from criminal records checks permitted by law.
Data will be stored in a range of different places, including in your personnel file, in The Hamlet's HR management systems and in other IT systems (including The Hamlet's email system).
Why does The Hamlet process personal data?
The Hamlet needs to process data to enter into an employment contract / agreement with you and to meet its obligations under your employment contract / agreement. For example, it needs to process your data to provide you with an employment contract, to pay you in accordance with your employment contract and to administer [benefit, pension and insurance entitlements].
In some cases, The Hamlet needs to process data to ensure that it is complying with its legal obligations. For example, it is required to check an employee's entitlement to work in the UK, to deduct tax, to comply with health and safety laws and to enable employees to take periods of leave to which they are entitled.
In other cases, The Hamlet has a legitimate interest in processing personal data before, during and after the end of the employment relationship. Processing employee data allows The Hamlet to:
 run recruitment and promotion processes;
 maintain accurate and up-to-date employment records and contact details (including details of who to contact in the event of an emergency), and records of employee contractual and statutory rights;
 operate and keep a record of disciplinary and grievance processes, to ensure acceptable conduct within the workplace;
 operate and keep a record of employee performance and related processes, to plan for career development, and for succession planning and workforce management purposes;
 operate and keep a record of absence and absence management procedures, to allow effective workforce management and ensure that employees are receiving the pay or other benefits to which they are entitled;
 obtain occupational health advice, to ensure that it complies with duties in relation to individuals with disabilities, meet its obligations under health and safety law, and ensure that employees are receiving the pay or other benefits to which they are entitled;
Privacy Notice GDPR Compliant March 2018 PM

3
 operate and keep a record of other types of leave (including maternity, paternity, adoption, parental and shared parental leave), to allow effective workforce management, to ensure that The Hamlet complies with duties in relation to leave entitlement, and to ensure that employees are receiving the pay or other benefits to which they are entitled;
 ensure effective general HR and business administration;
 provide references on request for current or former employees; and
 respond to and defend against legal claims.
Some special categories of personal data, such as information about health or medical conditions, is processed to carry out employment law obligations (such as those in relation to employees with disabilities).
Where The Hamlet processes other special categories of personal data, such as information about ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religion or belief, this is done for the purposes of equal opportunities monitoring. Data that The Hamlet uses for these purposes is anonymised or is collected with the express consent of employees, which can be withdrawn at any time. Employees are entirely free to decide whether or not to provide such data and there are no consequences of failing to do so.
Who has access to data?
Your information may be shared internally, including with members of the HR and recruitment team (including payroll), your line manager, managers in the service / business area in which you work and IT staff if access to the data is necessary for performance of their roles.
The Hamlet shares your data with third parties in order to obtain pre-employment references from other employers, obtain employment background checks from third-party providers and obtain necessary criminal records checks from the Disclosure and Barring Service. The Hamlet may also share your data with third parties in the context of a sale of some or all of its business. In those circumstances the data will be subject to confidentiality arrangements.
The Hamlet also shares your data with third parties that process data on its behalf, in connection with payroll, pension providers, absence management system, HR consultants, Charity Log data base, the provision of benefits and the provision of occupational health services.
The Hamlet will not transfer your data to countries outside the European Economic Area.
How does The Hamlet protect data?
The Hamlet takes the security of your data seriously. The Hamlet has internal policies and controls in place to try to ensure that your data is not lost, accidentally destroyed, misused or disclosed, and is not accessed except by its employees in the performance of their duties. Refer to your staff handbook for more information, our Information Governance Policy and Data Protection Policy. Access to HR systems is restricted to senior managers and the chief executive and HR assistant.
Where The Hamlet engages third parties to process personal data on its behalf, they do so on the basis of written instructions, are under a duty of confidentiality and are obliged to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the security of data.
Privacy Notice GDPR Compliant March 2018 PM

4
For how long does The Hamlet keep data? The Hamlet will hold your personal data for the duration of your employment. The periods for which your data is held after the end of employment are set out relevant retention periods. Your rights As a data subject, you have a number of rights. You can:
 access and obtain a copy of your data on request;  require The Hamlet to change incorrect or incomplete data;  require The Hamlet to delete or stop processing your data, for example where the
data is no longer necessary for the purposes of processing; and  object to the processing of your data where The Hamlet is relying on its legitimate
interests as the legal ground for processing. If you would like to exercise any of these rights, please contact admin@thehamletcharity.org.uk or phone 01693765405 and ask to speak to the HR Assistant. If you believe that The Hamlet has not complied with your data protection rights, you can complain to the Information Commissioner. What if you do not provide personal data? You have some obligations under your employment contract to provide The Hamlet with data. In particular, you are required to report absences from work and may be required to provide information about disciplinary or other matters under the implied duty of good faith. You may also have to provide The Hamlet with data in order to exercise your statutory rights, such as in relation to statutory leave entitlements. Failing to provide the data may mean that you are unable to exercise your statutory rights. Certain information, such as contact details, your right to work in the UK and payment details, have to be provided to enable The Hamlet to enter a contract of employment with you. If you do not provide other information, this will hinder The Hamlet's ability to administer the rights and obligations arising as a result of the employment relationship efficiently. Automated decision-making Employment decisions are not based solely on automated decision-making.
*The wording in this document reflects the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will come into effect in the UK on 25 May 2018.
Privacy Notice GDPR Compliant March 2018 PM

