Privacy notice

Form
1442i

The Department of Immigration and Border Protection (the department) includes the Australian Border Force. The Privacy Act 1988 (Privacy Act) requires the department to notify an individual of certain matters when it collects personal information about them. This form is your notification of those matters.
What is personal information?
The Privacy Act provides that personal information is information or an opinion about an individual who is reasonably identifiable.
The department also collects certain sensitive personal information, which is defined under the Privacy Act and includes information about an individual's racial or ethnic origin, sexual orientation or practices, criminal records, health information and biometric information, membership of professional or trade associations, religious beliefs or affiliations, philosophical beliefs, and membership of political associations.
The main pieces of legislation administered by the department are the Migration Act 1958 (the Migration Act), the Customs Act 1901 (the Customs Act), the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act 1946 (the IGOC Act), the Excise Act 1901(the Excise Act), the Australian Border Force Act 2015 (the Border Force Act), the Maritime Powers Act 2013 (Maritime Powers Act), and the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 (the Citizenship Act).
The department considers that all personal information, including sensitive personal information obtained by an entrusted person of the department is `protected information' under the Border Force Act.
Personal identifiers
The Migration and Citizenship Acts include specific provisions about the collection, use, and/or disclosure of your personal information, including sensitive information such as biometrics (also known as `personal identifiers').
The Acts define personal identifiers to include:
ท fingerprints or handprints
ท an image of the face and shoulders
ท an audio or video recording (for the purposes of the Migration Act only and with some limited exceptions)
ท a measurement of height and weight
ท an iris scan
ท a person's signature, or
ท any other identifier prescribed in the regulations.
Biometric information (personal identifiers) may be collected and/or verified from individuals:
ท at airports when travelling
ท for onshore visa applicants (including protection visa applicant)
ท who are non-citizens in the Australian community
ท who are immigration detainees
ท who are Australian citizenship applicants.
More information about the department's Biometric Initiatives, is available on the website www.border.gov.au/about/corporate/information/factsheets/84biometric

What the department does and our contact details
The department's mission is to protect Australia's border and manage the movement of people and goods across it by contributing to and ensuring:
ท Australia's future through managed migration
ท the protection of refugees and contribution to humanitarian policy internationally
ท Australia's security through border management and traveller facilitation
ท the collection of border revenue and trade statistics
ท the facilitation of legitimate trade
ท Australia's maritime security and commercial interests
ท compliance with Australia's immigration laws and integrity in decision-making
ท the administration of Australian citizenship laws.
Full contact details can be found on the department's website www.border.gov.au
If you believe we have wrongly collected or handled your information, you can:
ท telephone the Global Feedback Unit on 133 177 during business hours
ท complete a feedback form online at www.border.gov.au
ท write to: The Manager Global Feedback Unit GPO Box 241 Melbourne VIC 3001 Australia
ท contact us directly through any office of the department.
From whom the department will collect your personal information
Generally, the department (or its contracted service providers) will collect your personal information directly from you, a third party you authorise to act on your behalf or an authorised system as defined under the Migration Act. Authorised systems include SmartGate and other automated border clearance systems. We may also collect your information from third parties, which may include other Australian Government agencies, law enforcement agencies, foreign governments, sponsors, medical practitioners, organisations that you have nominated, education providers, employers and members of the public who contact the department with information (eg. `dob-in calls').
Agencies or contractors performing immigration services
Some personal information is collected and used on our behalf by other government agencies authorised to carry out some of the department's functions.
Personal information is also collected and used on our behalf by contractors. Examples include advanced passenger processing by airlines for both outward and inbound flights, computer systems, research surveys/interviews, support services for immigration detainees and medical services.
The department requires that its contractors also comply with the Privacy Act, regardless of whether they are located in Australia or overseas.

ฉ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2016

1442i (Design date 11/16) - Page 1

Collection of your personal information that is required or authorised by law
The Migration Act, the IGOC Act, the Customs Act, the Excise Act, the Maritime Powers Act, the Citizenship Act and the Privacy Act authorise, and in some instances require, the department to collect certain personal information to administer the Acts.
The Migration Act
In relation to visa applications, the department:
ท is authorised to collect any information which is relevant to the application (see section 56 of the Migration Act), and
ท may require you to provide a personal identifier (see sections 40 and 46 of the Migration Act).
Visa applicants, and some visa holders, must advise the department of a change in circumstances or incorrect information provided on an application form (sections 104 and 105 of the Migration Act).
The department may require you to provide one or more personal identifiers for the purposes of the Migration Act and the Migration Regulations 1994.
When entering Australia, the department will require you to provide certain personal information (eg. passport for citizens, and evidence of identity and visa for non-citizens). If you are a non-citizen and the required evidence is not provided, you will be refused entry to Australia (see section 257A of the Migration Act).
When departing Australia, the department may require you to provide certain personal identifiers (see section 257A of the Migration Act).
To identify unlawful non-citizens, the department may require:
ท evidence of identity and visa status, including a personal identifier (see section 188 of the Migration Act)
ท a person to give documents or information about the identity or whereabouts of a person suspected of being an unlawful non-citizen (see section 18 of the Migration Act).
A person in immigration detention must provide personal identifiers (see sections 258 and 261AA(1) of the Migration Act and regulation 3.30 of the Migration Regulations).
In the context of business sponsors, the department and the Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO) may collect personal information in accordance with the inspector powers at Subdivision F of Division 3A of Part 2 of the Migration Act.
For the purposes of the search power in section 252 of the Migration Act, an authorised officer may retain a document or other thing found on a person or in property under the person's immediate control, for example, that may be evidence for cancelling the person's visa.
An officer may seize a bogus document that is forfeited (see section 487ZJ, and Division 1 of Part 9 of the Migration Act including on how the document must be dealt with).
The Citizenship Act
The department may collect a range of personal information to be satisfied that an individual meets citizenship requirements.
We are authorised to request personal identifiers in relation to citizenship applications, and an application cannot be approved if the decision maker is not satisfied of your identity (see Division 5 of Part 2 and sections 17(3), 19D(4), 24(3), and 30(3) of the Citizenship Act).
A delegate may seize a bogus document that is forfeited (see section 45B, and Division 1 of part 3 of the Citizenship Act including on how the document must be dealt with).

The IGOC Act
Under the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act 1946 (the IGOC Act) and its regulations, the Minister for Immigration is the guardian of certain unaccompanied non-citizen minors who arrive in Australia not accompanied by a parent or relative aged 21 years or over (known as IGOC minors).
To assist in meeting guardianship responsibilities, the IGOC Act allows the Minister to delegate his/her guardianship powers and functions to officers in the Commonwealth or state or territory governments (referred to as `delegated guardians'). Willing and suitable persons or organisations can also be appointed to be `custodians' of IGOC minors. In general terms, a custodian has the right and responsibility to make decisions about the daily care and control of a child who is in their custody.
To ensure the day-to-day care and welfare for children under the IGOC Act, the department collects personal information about IGOC minors and their custodians. To ensure the daily care and welfare needs of IGOC minors are met, where necessary and in accordance with the Privacy Act, the department may disclose personal information to, and collect information from:
ท state/territory authorities, including child welfare agencies
ท delegated guardians
ท custodians
ท parents, carers and/or relatives, and/or
ท other Australian Government agencies.
The Customs Act and Excise Act
The department is authorised to collect a range of personal and business information in the administration of the Customs and Excise Acts and other related Australian laws (including the Migration Act and taxation legislation). In particular, the department collects this information in protecting Australia's borders and ensuring the collection of border revenue.
In some cases, our forms which collect personal information from you in respect of matters arising under the Customs and Excise Acts and taxation legislation may also carry unique collection notices. These forms will also provide you with specific information regarding the collection, use and disclosure of the personal information collected in that documentation, and should be read in conjunction with this privacy notice.
For example, under sections 64ACA and 64ACB of the Customs Act, the department is required to collect certain personal information regarding passengers and crew of ships and aircraft arriving in Australia, for the purposes of administering the Customs Act, Migration Act and other laws.
The Maritime Powers Act
The department is authorised to collect personal information in the exercise of maritime powers by on-water enforcement agencies. The powers support the enforcement of Australia's maritime related laws, including in relation to illegal foreign fishing, customs, maritime counter terrorism, migration, quarantine and drug trafficking, as well as international agreements and arrangements at sea.
Privacy Act
The Privacy Act permits collection of:
ท sensitive information where it is authorised under law, or for enforcement related functions, or with your consent
ท other personal information where it is reasonably necessary for, or directly related to, one or more of the department's functions or activities.

1442i (Design date 11/16) - Page 2

ฉ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2016

Acts under which the department is a law enforcement agency
The department is a law enforcement agency for certain purposes under the following Acts: the Crimes Act 1914, the Criminal Code Act 1995, the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation Act 1987 (the ANSTO Act) and the Independent National Security Legislation Monitor Act 2010, and may collect personal information in order to perform its functions and activities under those Acts.
The purpose for which we collect your personal information
Our primary purpose for collecting personal information is to carry out the department's functions or activities associated with your immigration and/or citizenship pathway, and the movement of goods across the border. We manage the following programmes:
ท visa and migration
ท customs and excise, including the administration of certain other Australian laws including taxation, health, quarantine, commerce, criminal, intellectual property and community protection laws
ท refugee and humanitarian assistance
ท border management
ท visa compliance and immigration status resolution
ท immigration detention, removal or transfer to a Regional Processing Centre (including service providers and foreign authorities in support of offshore processing, such as law enforcement, the provision of welfare services and settlement)
ท citizenship.
Information you provide in a visa, sponsorship, trade, import and export, quarantine, or citizenship application will be used for that primary purpose.
Under the Privacy Act, information can also be used for a secondary purpose. Generally this is where you would reasonably expect the department to use or disclose your personal information and the secondary purpose is either directly related to the primary purpose (for sensitive information) or related to the primary purpose (for other personal information). For example, the information you provide in a visa application may be used in relation to your subsequent applications (including under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 and Privacy Act). Further, we may use electronic contact details you have provided to contact you about migration issues.
The consequences if your personal information is not collected by the department
If your personal information is not collected, the department may not be able to process your application for a visa or citizenship or (where relevant) provide trade, import, export and quarantine support services to you.
Failure to collect your information may inhibit the ability of the department to meet its statutory obligations (particularly in relation to compliance), its duty of care obligations, or Australia's international commitments.
The usual disclosure of your personal information to third parties
Disclosure to nominated representatives
Where you have nominated a person, such as a family member, migration agent, customs broker, travel or airline agent, Ombudsman, Member of Parliament, or solicitor to represent you, your personal information may be disclosed to those third parties unless you have requested that we do not do so.
Your personal information can be disclosed to the person you are sponsoring or your sponsor.

Usual disclosures to other government agencies
The department is, in certain circumstances, authorised or permitted under the Border Force Act or other legislation to disclose personal information to other government agencies, such as for the purposes of administering its functions and activities or to enable or assist the other agency to perform its functions. Examples include disclosure to confirm your identity, verify the authenticity of documents you have provided, undertake data matching, or to manage compliance obligations.
Government agencies we exchange information with include but are not limited to:
ท Department of Human Services (DHS), to administer the Social Security Act 1991, the Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989 and Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988
ท Department of Social Services
ท Department of Agriculture, to manage Australia's biosecurity system and administration of the Quarantine Act 1908, Export Control Act 1982 and Imported Food Control Act 1992
ท Therapeutic Goods Administration
ท Department of Industry
ท Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority to administer the National Anti-Doping Scheme
ท Department of Education, to administer the Education Services for Overseas Students Act 2000
ท Department of Employment, to data match information about employment services
ท Department of Veterans' Affairs, to administer the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986
ท Australian Taxation Office (ATO), to administer the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 and other taxation legislation
ท Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO), to administer the Fair Work Act 2009
ท Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT), to administer the Australian Passport Act 2005 and to obtain country information for protection visa processing, and in respect of any foreign passport you may be entitled to hold as a dual national
ท Australian Electoral Commission, to administer the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918.
Review, Audit and Investigation Bodies
If you apply for merits or judicial review of a decision, the department will provide relevant personal information to the tribunal or court conducting the review.
We share information with investigation bodies such as:
ท Commonwealth and Immigration Ombudsman
ท Office of the Australian Information Commissioner
ท Australian National Audit Office
ท Australian Human Rights Commission
ท Fair Work Ombudsman.
Emergencies and law enforcement
Your personal information may be provided to Australian law enforcement agencies or emergency services in the event of an emergency, serious injury or death.
The department also discloses personal information to Australian (Commonwealth, state and territory) and foreign enforcement agencies or bodies where necessary for an enforcement related activity, including the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution or punishment of a criminal offence.
Support programmes
Information collected in the visa process may be disclosed to:
ท Department of Social Services to provide settlement support
ท Department of Industry to facilitate and monitor English language training.

ฉ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2016

1442i (Design date 11/16) - Page 3

Disclosures to licencing authorities
If you apply for a licence in Australia, the department may disclose to the relevant authority information about your migration status and work entitlements, and in some instances whether you have been granted Australian citizenship. This information will be used to assess your suitability to hold a licence. There are also specific disclosures that may be made if you apply for specific licences under the Customs Act.
Authorised disclosure of personal information
`Personal identifier' is defined on Page 1.
The department has authority under Part 4A of the Migration Act and s43 of the Citizenship Act to disclose personal identifiers in a range of circumstances. Examples include:
ท to verify citizenship or visa status
ท for the enforcement of criminal law
ท exchanging identifying information under an arrangement with an Australian Government agency
ท making relevant information available to a court, tribunal, or investigating body
ท where required by Australian law.
The department also has authority under the Citizenship Act to disclose personal identifiers for the purposes of citizenship or migration legislation.
Part 4A of the Migration Act also authorises the department to disclose personal information (including personal identifiers) in the following circumstances:
ท data matching to: ญญ identify, or authenticate the identity of a person ญญ facilitate processing persons entering or departing from Australia ญญ identify non-citizens who have a criminal history, are of character concern or are of national security concern ญญ combat document and identity fraud in immigration matters ญญ assist processing a protection visa
ท to identify or locate a person (see also sections 33FA and 33FC of the Migration Act)
ท to prescribed investigatory bodies such as the Australian National Audit Office and the Australian Human Rights Commission
ท to make arrangements with the foreign governments for removal from Australia or for the purposes of extradition of a person to and from Australia
ท to make the information available to specified foreign governments, law enforcement or border control bodies of foreign governments, or specified international organisations for the purposes of managing migration issues (see section 5A(3) of the Migration Act)

ท bodies or people prescribed by the Australian Border Force (Secrecy and Disclosure) Rule 2015, such as the Australian Red Cross Society
ท foreign country or public international organisation.
However, in addition to other specific requirements in Part 6 of the Border Force Act, the disclosure of personal information under the Border Force Act is only authorised to one of the above entities if it is also done for one or more of the `permitted purposes' listed in the Border Force Act. Examples include where disclosure is for one of the following purposes:
ท the administration or enforcement of a criminal law or a law with respect to commerce
ท assisting a coronial inquiry, investigation or inquest
ท protecting public health, or the life or safety of one or more person
ท collecting or verifying statistics under the Census and Statistics Act 1905 or the Australian Bureau of Statistics Act 1975
ท protecting public revenue
ท identifying a person or verifying their citizenship or visa status
ท the provision of services to persons who are not Australian citizens
ท the administration of the National Anti-Doping Scheme
ท a purpose relating to immigration, quarantine or border control between Australia and a foreign country
ท matters covered by a range of legislation including the Customs Act, Migration Act, Maritime Powers Act, Citizenship Act, IGOC Act, etc
ท a purpose relating to defence or national security.
The department is also authorised to disclose protected personal information if the individual consents to disclosure, the disclosure is necessary to prevent or lessen a serious threat to the life or health of an individual or the information has already been lawfully made available to the public.
Section 51 of the Border Force Act provides that disclosures in accordance with certain provisions in Part 6 of that Act will be taken to be a disclosure that is authorised by that Act for the purposes of the Privacy Act.
Additionally, a disclosure of personal information is permitted under the Border Force Act if it is made in the course of an entrusted person's employment or service for the department. The department will ensure that any such disclosure complies with the Privacy Act.
The department is also authorised to disclose personal information which is protected information in limited circumstances contemplated in customs related legislation such as the Customs Act and regulations.
Disclosure of Movement Records

ท for obtaining or giving assistance in international criminal matters.
For more information about personal identifiers see form 1243i.

Arrival and departure records of travellers to and from Australia are stored in a movement records database. They may be disclosed for the purposes of:

In relation to worker visas, the department is also authorised to disclose certain personal information about sponsors or visa holders to the corresponding visa holder or sponsor (see section 140ZH of the Migration Act and regulations 2.103, 2.104 and 2.105).
The department is also authorised to disclose personal information which is protected information in limited circumstances outlined in Part 6 of the Border Force Act. In certain circumstances, the Border Force Act permits disclosures to the following entities:
ท Commonwealth, state and territory agencies or authorities

ท the Migration Act ท the Family Law Act 1975 ท customs or excise laws ท quarantine or health laws ท law enforcement ท the Education Services for Overseas Students Act 2000 ท prescribed Commonwealth, state or territory legislation,
such as administration of first home owners programmes or children and/or welfare programmes.

ท Australian Federal Police (AFP) or a police force or service of a state or territory

ท coroner

ท Commonwealth, state or territory statutory office holders (eg. an Ombudsman)

1442i (Design date 11/16) - Page 4

ฉ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2016

Disclosure for law enforcement and related purposes

ท educational institutions which provide English-language

Usual disclosures by the department for law enforcement and

tuition under the Adult Migrant English Program

related purposes (including for enforcement activities under the

ท Government bodies for the purposes of regulation of

Migration and Citizenship Acts and enforcement activities of

education providers.

other enforcement bodies) include to:
ท Australian and overseas law enforcement agencies to assess and enforce character requirements
ท Australian and overseas law enforcement agencies and intelligence agencies or commissions, National Common Police Services, Interpol, National Border Targeting Centre, CrimTrac, AusTRAC, regulatory commissions, parliamentary commissions of inquiry, international tribunals and overseas

Health
Details of you or your family members' health as assessed for your visa application may be disclosed to government health agencies and medical providers to assist in determining whether the health requirement is met for visa grant, for consideration of whether the health requirement should be waived, or for management of public health risks.

immigration authorities, to identify or investigate immigration fraud, national security issues, or suspected involvement in war crimes or crimes against humanity
ท Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity to administer the Law Enforcement Integrity Commissioner Act 2006

Refugee and Humanitarian Entry, and On-shore Protection
The department may exchange the personal information of refugee and humanitarian entrants and their proposers (if applicable) to contracted service providers under the Humanitarian Settlement Services.

ท ATO, DHS and other Commonwealth or state and territory agencies to locate persons working in breach of their work related visa conditions

The department may provide personal information concerning asylum seekers and applicants for protection or humanitarian visas to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

ท AFP and Australian police forces to locate unlawful non-citizens

(UNHCR) for the purpose of verifying identity, and humanitarian

ท Director of Public Prosecutions prosecuting migration or

or protection claims.

citizenship offences

The department may also provide personal information to the

ท foreign governments for the removal of an unlawful non-citizen ท FWO, registered educational institutions, employers,

International Organization for Migration to assist its delivery of services.

sponsored persons, sponsors and labour suppliers to monitor compliance with visa conditions and sponsorship obligations, and notify instances of sanctions imposition.
ท law enforcement agencies including the AFP in relation to the personal information of visa applicants and proposers under the Refugee and Humanitarian programme, to identify any law enforcement or national security issues.

Detention
The department may provide personal information concerning immigration detainees to: ท state and territory welfare agencies in relation to alternative
detention arrangements, care for unaccompanied minors or guardianship for detainees with physical and mental health disabilities

Disclosures by the department as a law enforcement agency
The department is a law enforcement agency for certain purposes under the following Acts: the Crimes Act 1914, the Criminal Code Act 1995, the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation Act 1987 (the ANSTO Act) and the Independent National Security Legislation Monitor Act 2010,

ท state and territory correctional services to facilitate transfers and confirm immigration status
ท offshore processing service providers in support of transfers ท schools, medical practitioners and health and welfare services
providers, or migration advisors providing services to you or assessing options to assist you or your family to depart.

and may disclose personal information in order to perform its functions and activities under those Acts.

Welfare and protection of children The personal information of children, and/or parents/guardians/

Other disclosures associated with programme management

carers of children, may be disclosed to child welfare and

Assurance of support
Information relating to people providing Assurance of Support will be disclosed to Centrelink to facilitate release of bonds paid or identification and recovery of debts incurred.

protection agencies, to state/territory child welfare agencies, state/territory police or other relevant Australian Government agencies to: ท organise and monitor care and welfare arrangements in
immigration detention and/or in the community

Employment, labour supply and business skills
The department may disclose information about your migration status, work entitlements and the type and duration of your visa to employers, labour suppliers and third parties who use your services through a labour supply arrangement. For example, when you apply for work, the department may disclose to the

ท investigate possible abuse or neglect ท facilitate travel arrangements and documentation.
Information relating to children entering Australia for adoption may be disclosed to state and territory welfare organisations, Australia's Central Adoption Authorities and Intercountry Adoption Australia.

employer or labour supplier about your eligibility to work.
The department may also disclose information to state and territory economic development departments and agencies that help business skills migrants access government business information services.

Information to embassies, high commission and consulates to obtain travel documents
If you are granted a visa on departure grounds or have no lawful basis to remain in Australia you are expected to depart. If you do not hold or obtain a valid travel document within a reasonable

Training and education
Personal information may be disclosed to: ท DFAT, Department of Industry and Department of Education to
assist those seeking to undertake training or to study in Australia ท Department of Employment to determine any impact of a
proposed workplace component on the Australian labour market

timeframe, it is the usual practice of the department to apply for one on your behalf. This allows arrangements for your departure to be made.
The department will only provide the minimum information required by the appropriate embassy, high commission or consulate to facilitate provision of a travel document. This may include your name, details of your current passport or other

ท Department of Education and delegated authorities who

identity documents and contact details.

assess overseas qualifications for some classes of visas

ฉ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2016

1442i (Design date 11/16) - Page 5

Citizenship
The department may provide personal information other than personal identifiers to: ท local government councils and other organisations for the
purpose of conducting and hosting citizenship ceremonies ท the Office of the Official Secretary to the Governor-General
and the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet to consider applications for Australian honours ท Members of Parliament and local government councillors for the purposes of welcoming new citizens into the Australian community.
Migration research
Personal information may be used for surveys of current and former clients. Personal information may be disclosed to other agencies and contracted third parties for the purposes of research, investigation and analysis for policy and/or program development. Contracts limit its use to stated research purposes, and require its destruction upon completion. Data collected and used in research is de-identified before it is released.
Personal information may be disclosed to the Australian Bureau of Statistics to facilitate demographic research on new arrivals and analysis of various migration programs and settlement outcomes.
Information relating to recent arrivals may be given to state and territory agencies or migrant service organisations to assist settlement planning or provide settlement services.
Major international events
Personal information may be disclosed to Australian Government agencies, including state and territory agencies, that have coordinating roles in major international events, such as: major sporting matches and games; international heads of state meetings; social, cultural or religious world gatherings or festivals.
The department may also use and disclose non-sensitive information with Australian and international organisations, and other countries, to facilitate your arrangements.
Information about the department's privacy policy
The department's privacy policy is available from the department's website www.border.gov.au/privacy or any office of the department.
The policy contains information about:
ท how you may access your own personal information held by the department and seek correction of it
ท how you can complain about a breach of privacy and the department's complaint handling procedures.
Disclosure of your information to overseas recipients
The department uses external IT contractors to transmit and store data, including providers located overseas.
In some circumstances we disclose personal information to overseas recipients. Often the recipient will be your country of usual residence or the country you have departed from (unless you have made claims for protection against those countries and are awaiting the assessment of those claims to be finalised). This will include disclosures to airlines or travel agents in respect of advanced passenger processing and electronic visa processing.
The department also exchanges information with countries or international organisations that have information sharing agreements with Australia including but not limited to, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. These information exchanges may involve sharing biometrics (personal identifiers). More information about the department's Biometric Initiatives is available on the website www.border.gov.au/about/corporate/information/factsheets/84biometric

If there is a match with your personal identifiers, the department may disclose your biographical data, copies of travel and other identity documents or information from such documents, your immigration status and immigration history (which may include any immigration fraud and offences) and any relevant criminal history information.
The purpose of such disclosure is to help confirm your identity and determine if you have presented to other agencies under the same identity and with similar claims.
If you are making an offshore humanitarian or protection visa application based on claims against the government of a particular country, the department will not disclose your personal information to that government, unless you are in Australia and you:
ท have requested or agreed to return to this country, or
ท are found not to be a person to whom Australia owes protection obligations.

Home page www.border.gov.au

General enquiry line

Telephone 131 881 during business hours in Australia to speak to an operator (recorded information available outside these hours). Ifyou are outside Australia, please contact your nearest Australian mission.

1442i (Design date 11/16) - Page 6

ฉ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2016

