ACC Privacy Policy
Policy Statement
ACC's Privacy Policy sets out the standards that will enable personal and health information in our care to be managed as carefully and respectfully as if it were our own.
Objective
A privacy policy is a vehicle for guiding and training staff, providing assurance that all employees understand their responsibility to protect inadvertent use of information for unauthorised purposes, and protecting our customers from any harm that could result. The policy sets out the principles used by ACC to collect, use, disclose and store personal and health related information, and forms the basis of how ACC will handle, process, manage and destroy personal and health information.
Scope
Privacy relates to personal information, defined as information about an identifiable individual. ACC is also a health agency that manages health information, which is information about an individual's medical history, disability, or health services provided to an individual. Information includes physical and electronic documents, and can include information held in the mind of ACC's employees as long as that information is readily retrievable. This Privacy Policy applies to all business units, branches, service providers, suppliers, and employees of ACC.
Policy system
Privacy is one of ACC's strategic intentions and there is accountability for privacy throughout the organisation, from the Board and Executive to managers and employees. ACC's privacy system is integrated with our Target Operating Model (TOM) through the Information Layer. The TOM puts the customer at the centre of our processes and will fundamentally transform the way ACC collects, uses, stores and discloses information. ACC's Privacy Maturity Plan is part of the Information layer of the TOM. ACC's privacy system is guided by the Privacy Policy, with the maturity plan measuring our progress. As a specialist team within this system, ACC's Privacy Team supports organisational privacy controls, knowledge and skills.
Policy standards
Collection
ACC carefully manages the collection of personal and health information. ACC collects personal and health information for purposes linked to our organisational purpose. We collect only the information necessary to carry out our functions and responsibilities. Information is collected primarily from individuals who make an injury-related claim or pay levies. Staff who gather information for ACC are guided by internal procedures and training that specifies the boundaries of collection. These procedures guide instances when information needs to be

obtained from indirect sources such as staff, medical providers, employers, or government agencies, or to fulfil our health and safety obligations.
ACC commits to making people aware of the collection of information. We will inform them of our purpose for collection and their rights to access and correct that information. Irrelevant and unnecessary information will be returned to the supplier or destroyed where practicable.
Access
ACC facilitates access to personal and health information as a key priority. ACC commits to providing individuals with access to their personal and health information, unless an exception under legislation applies. Requesters are verified and the information is provided to them within legislative timeframes and boundaries.
Correction
ACC respects the individual's right to seek amendment of factually incorrect information. Staff follow ACC's process regarding the facilitation of such requests, and where information is unable to be corrected, they will invite the individual to submit a statement of correction, and ensure that it is read together with the original document in future.
Use and disclosure
Information held by ACC will be used and disclosed according to legislation. ACC uses information to: assess entitlements to compensation, rehabilitation and medical treatment; assist the evaluation of ACC's services and performance; contribute to research into injury prevention and effective rehabilitation; ascertain levy payments and maintain the Scheme. Personal and health information is used and disclosed for the purposes consistent with the reason it was obtained, and the core business purposes of ACC. Reasonable steps will be taken to ensure personal and health information is complete, relevant, and up to date.
Personal and health information is disclosed to other parties only where there is legal authority to do so. ACC may use and disclose personal and health information to fulfil our legislative obligations and protect the health and safety of staff and third parties. ACC will take reasonable steps to ensure third parties protect the personal and health information ACC shares with them in line with legislation and with the same care ACC gives to it.
Storage
ACC commits to storing information with reasonable safeguards against loss and disclosure. Reasonable safeguards include using physical and technological protections against unauthorised access. ACC will not keep information for longer than is necessary, or allowed by legislation.
Incident management
ACC has clear, consistent processes for reporting, managing and escalating privacy incidents. Privacy incidents reported within ACC include breaches, near misses, or loss of ACC client data caused by parties contracted to ACC. Incidents will be resolved at the source as soon as practicable and affected parties notified as appropriate. Breaches will be reported externally according to the standards set by the Government Chief Privacy Officer and legislation.

Training
ACC will train its employees and contractors in personal and health information management. New staff are trained to ensure the privacy principles are applied when fulfilling their role within ACC. Existing staff are required to undertake regular training on privacy risk areas specific to their business area, as well as broader privacy principles.
Staff information
ACC will protect the privacy of staff members. Staff personal and health information is treated with the utmost care and respect, and in accordance with legislative privacy requirements.
Process review
ACC commits to retaining up to date privacy processes. ACC business processes relating to the collection, recording, access, use, storage and destruction of personal and health information will be regularly reviewed to ensure they reflect ACC's privacy strategic intention and remain relevant and accessible to staff.
Accountabilities
Board responsibility for privacy is set out in the ACC Board Governance Manual. This acknowledges that the Board is committed to managing personal and health information by:
 setting clear expectations regarding privacy and protection of personal and health information, and communicating them to executive management
 holding executive management accountable for meeting those expectations
 ensuring that effective privacy risk management is fully embedded within ACC's overall risk management activities
 employing high-quality monitoring and information management practices. To support the Board, ACC managers are directly accountable for identifying and addressing privacy risk in their own units, and reporting privacy incidents to the Board via the Chief Governance and Strategy Officer. The Chief Governance and Strategy Officer, on behalf of the Executive, is accountable for ensuring that supporting guidelines, operational measures and monitoring are in place.
Responsibilities
ACC has the following roles and responsibilities embedded in the organisation:
 The Board is responsible for ensuring the organisation is aware of the need to look after our customers' information through high-quality monitoring and information management practices.
 The Executive will model best privacy practices and ensure privacy is core to all aspects of ACC's culture.
 The Chief Governance and Strategy Officer, represents the Executive team in relation to all matters regarding privacy.

 The Chief Governance and Strategy Officer is responsible for ensuring that organisational controls are in place to: support and raise awareness of this policy; report and analyse privacy incidents to identify root causes of privacy incidents; and develop training to disperse privacy knowledge throughout ACC.
 ACC's Privacy Officer supports ACC's compliance with this policy and the relevant legislation. The Privacy Officer oversees investigations into privacy-related complaints lodged with the Privacy Commissioner and ACC.
 ACC People Managers have specified responsibilities for:  notifying privacy incidents to their manager  proactively assessing and managing privacy risk  managing all privacy reporting requirements through the Privacy Reporting Tool  liaising with the Talent Group following all privacy incidents to ensure consistent follow up with staff  owning the unit's Privacy Risk Register and ensure it is kept current  ensuring staff are aware of and recognise the importance of their role in privacy  ensuring staff are aware of and compliant with ACC's Privacy Policy, the Privacy Act 1993 (external link), the Health Information Privacy Code 1994 (external link), and complete their annual privacy training  ensuring new staff induction includes privacy training.
 All ACC staff have individual responsibility to maintain best practice privacy behaviours, report all privacy breaches and near misses to a manager, promote privacy at work, comply with privacy policies, actively participate in privacy training, and identify privacy risks.
Monitoring and oversight
ACC's privacy policies and guidelines have been established to comply with the Privacy Act 1993 (external link) and Health Information Privacy Code 1994 (external link). The monitoring and oversight of privacy follows the three lines of defence assurance model to provide assurance that staff and third party privacy risks are being managed effectively under different situations.
Breaches of Policy
ACC's Code of Conduct sets out the expectation that staff will comply with all policies and procedures. Actions found to be in breach of the Code of Conduct may result in disciplinary action.
Who to contact
For general enquiries email information@acc.co.nz. Use the following contact information if you have concerns and complaints about Right 7 of the Code of ACC Claimants' Rights:  complaints@acc.co.nz  Customer Support Service phone 0800 650 222, or if overseas phone +64 848 7403

ACC's Privacy Team can provide support or respond to any complaints about privacy related matters under the Privacy Act or Health Information Privacy Code. You can contact them in the following ways:
 The Privacy Officer Accident Compensation Corporation PO Box 242 Wellington 6011
 Email: Privacy.Officer@acc.co.nz
 Phone: (04) 816 7400

