Privacy Policy
________________________________________________________________
INTRODUCTION
This website (Website) is operated by Datascope Systems Limited (Datascope). Datascope is the data controller in respect of all personal data collected by us on this Website or otherwise. This means that we are responsible for ensuring that we do so in full compliance with the Data Protection Act 1998 (to be replaced by the General Data Protection Regulation when it comes into effect in May 2018), This Privacy Policy explains what personal data we may collect about you, how we use it, and the steps we take to ensure that it is kept secure. We also explain your rights and how to contact us.
Links to other websites
Please note, this Website may contain links to other websites that are not controlled by us. These links are provided for your convenience. We are only responsible for our privacy practices and our security. We recommend that you check the privacy and security policies and procedures of each and every other website that you visit and each organisation that holds your personal data.
BY USING THIS WEBSITE AND/OR GIVING PERSONAL DATA TO US YOU INDICATE THAT YOU CONSENT TO US USING YOUR PERSONAL DATA IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS PRIVACY POLICY
THE PERSONAL DATA WE COLLECT and ITS SOURCES
We may obtain personal data face to face, electronically, on paper (such as any form you complete - including any online form) or verbally (such as during any telephone conversations we have with you). The information may come to us:
 directly from you such as when you make an enquiry, register on or use our website, sign up for and/or use one of our products or services, raise any concerns or complete one of our surveys
 from another organisation for example, where you obtain one of our software products through a reseller
 from social media sites or apps. If your settings and preferences allow, we may collect information (including personal data) from social media services such as Facebook and Twitter
Information about other people
If you provide personal data to us relating to any person other than yourself, you must ensure before you do so that they understand how their personal data will be used and that you are authorised to disclose it to us, and to consent to its use on their behalf.

IP addresses and other technical information
In order to understand how users use this Website and our services, we may collect Internet Protocol addresses (also known as IP addresses). Your IP address is a unique address that computer devices (such as PCs, tablets and smartphones) use to identify themselves and in order to communicate with other devices in the network. We may also collect details of the computer operating system and browser you use.
Cookies
In common with many other website operators, we may use standard technology called 'cookies' on this Website. Cookies are small pieces of information that are stored by your browser on your computer's hard drive and they are used to record how you navigate this Website on each visit.
Our cookies are used to enable us to develop our Website and to enable you to properly navigate it. We use cookies to collect personal information to enable us to understand our visitors' interests and by noting who has seen which pages and advertisements (including click through from emails), how frequently particular pages are visited and to enable us to determine the most popular areas of our Website. We may use cookies to enrich your experience of using the Website by allowing us to tailor what you see and information and offers you receive where you have agreed do so (see `Offers and Opportunities' below) to what we have learned about your preferences during your visits to our Website. Sometimes we may use services of third parties and they may use cookies on our behalf in order to provide their services.
The cookies we use on this Website are shown below:

Name of cookie User Login

Type of cookie Passive

Purpose of cookie To manage user session and remember user

You may also get cookies (including Flash cookies) from our sponsors and advertisers if you click on their links or adverts. You should check their privacy and security policies to understand how they use these.
Preventing use of cookies
Most browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually change your browser to prevent cookies being stored. With experience, you can usually choose to switch off all cookies or to allow only certain `trusted' sites to place cookies.
For further information on cookies and Flash cookies and how to switch them off see the Information Commissioner's website at www.ico.org.uk or visit www.allaboutcookies.org/ or www.aboutcookies.org.
PLEASE NOTE, IF YOU DO TURN COOKIES OFF, THIS WILL LIMIT THE SERVICE THAT WE ARE ABLE TO PROVIDE TO YOU AND MAY AFFECT YOUR USER EXPERIENCE

The personal data we collect
The type and quantity of personal data we collect and how we use it depends on why you are providing it. If you enquire about our products or services, we will ask for your contact details. If you subscribe to one of our services, we will need payment information from you.
HOW WE WILL USE YOUR PERSONAL DATA
All personal data that we obtain about you and/or any other person whose details you provide will be recorded, used, and protected by us in accordance with current data protection law and this Privacy Policy. We will primarily use the personal data for the following purposes:
 administration. To provide the goods and services you request (including taking payments) and to communicate with you in the event that any goods or services requested are unavailable, or if there is a query or problem with your request or we need to make a change to the service we provide
 fraud prevention. To detect and reduce fraud and credit risk  market research. To carry out market research so that we can improve the goods and services we
offer  profiling. To create an individual profile for you (including analysing demographic and geographic
information) so that we can enhance your experience and relationship with us, enable you to use interactive features of our Website and services, understand and respect your preferences and to provide information and details of relevant offers and information where you have agreed to receive them
Disclosing your personal data
We do not sell personal data but if, for example, we hold an event in conjunction with another organisation, we may share information between us, in which case, we will make that clear to you when you provide the personal data.
In order to provide our products and services, we may, occasionally, appoint other organisations to carry out some of the processing activities on our behalf. These may include, for example, technology hosts, printing companies and mailing houses. In these circumstances, we will ensure that your personal data is properly protected and that it is only used in accordance with this Privacy Policy.
We use third party electronic payment providers to administer some transactions. They have their own privacy policies and we encourage you to read them.
On a very rare occasion, we may need to disclose your details, if required, to the police, regulatory bodies or legal advisors or to comply with a court order or a legal obligation. In these circumstances we will be careful to only provide information that we are required to provide.
In the event we sell our business or any of its assets, we may disclose your information to the prospective buyer but will take appropriate steps to safeguard your personal data if we do so.

THE LEGAL BASIS FOR PROCESSING YOUR PERSONAL DATA
The legal basis for the collection and processing of your personal data is:
· contract. That it is necessary to fulfil the contract that you are going to enter into or have entered into with Datascope
· consent. That you have given your consent and/or · legitimate interests. That it is necessary for Datascope's legitimate interests which are to provide a
continued high level of customer service and does not prejudice or harm your rights and freedom.
Where we have obtained your consent to process your personal data, you have the right to withdraw that consent at any time. If you do, it will not affect the lawfulness of any processing for which we had consent prior to your withdrawing it.
INVITATIONS, NEWSLETTERS, OFFERS and OPPORTUNITIES
We would like to contact you and/or any person whose information you provide to us, to provide details of offers and opportunities that are available and about a range of other initiatives in a number of ways, including by post, telephone, text message or by email. Details of how to opt-in to or opt-out of receiving details of offers are on relevant pages of this Website, in relevant forms you complete and/or in the electronic message you receive.
Preferences / Subscribe / Unsubscribe
You and any other person whose personal data you have provided to us can change your/their mind about whether you wish to receive information at any time. You can change your preferences by using any of the methods shown below (see the section `Updating and correcting personal data') or by following the instructions with each communication you/they receive.
Please note it may take up to one month for your changes to be implemented and for communications to cease.
DATA SECURITY
We take the security of personal data seriously. We employ security technology, including firewalls, and encryption to safeguard personal data and have procedures in place to ensure that our paper and computer systems and databases are protected against unauthorised disclosure, use, loss and damage. Personal data in our databases is only accessible by appropriately trained staff who need to access your personal data as an essential part of their role. All access is tracked through individual login credentials. We only use third party service providers where we are satisfied that the security they provide for your personal data is at least as stringent as we use ourselves.

MONITORING
We may monitor or record telephone calls for security purposes and to improve the quality of the services we provide to you.
DATA RETENTION
We will normally keep your personal data for six years. If, after this point, you have not engaged with us or taken up any of our products or services we will keep only minimal personal data on a suppression list to ensure we can respect your preferences in the future. We expect to contact you at least every two years to ensure you are still happy to hear from us in accordance with the preferences you have provided to us.
USE OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE THE EUROPEAN UNION
We do not currently transfer personal data outside of the European Union. If this changes and we do need to transfer your personal data to other territories, we will take proper steps to ensure that it is protected in accordance with this Privacy Policy and applicable privacy laws.
CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY
Privacy laws and practice are constantly developing and we aim to meet high standards. Our policies and procedures are, therefore, under continual review. We may, from time to time, update our security and privacy policies. If we want to make any significant changes in how we will use your personal data we will contact you directly and, if required, seek your consent. We will ensure our Website has our most up to date policy and suggest that you check this page periodically to review our latest version.
UPDATING and CORRECTING PERSONAL DATA
You can update or correct your personal data yourself online at [www.DatascopeSystems.com] or can contact us and ask us to do it for you (see the section `How to contact us' below). Please include your name, address and/or email address when you contact us as this helps us to ensure that we accept amendments only from the correct person.

We encourage you to promptly update your personal data if it changes. If you are providing updates or corrections about another person, we may require you to provide us with proof that you are authorised to provide that information to us.

YOUR RIGHTS

You have a number of legal rights in respect of your personal data. These include:
 access. The right to receive a copy of the personal data that we hold about you. The same right applies to any other person whose personal data you provide to us. We will require proof of identity and proof of authority if the request comes from someone other than the person whose data we are asked to provide. This will ensure we only provide information to the correct person. We normally expect to respond to requests within 28 days of receiving them.
 withdraw consent to direct marketing. You can exercise this right at any time and can update your preferences yourself or ask us to do it for you. See section `Updating and correcting your personal data' above for details.
 withdraw consent to other processing. Where the only legal basis for our processing your personal data is that we have your consent to do so, you may withdraw your consent to that processing at any time and we will have to stop processing your personal data. Please note, this will only affect a new activity and does not mean that processing carried out before you withdrew your consent is unlawful.
 rectification. If you consider any of your personal data is inaccurate, you can correct it yourself or ask us to do it for you (see section `Updating and correcting your personal data' above for details).
 restriction. In limited circumstances you may be able to require us to restrict our processing of your personal data. For example, if you consider what we hold is inaccurate and we disagree, the processing may be restricted until the accuracy has been verified.
 erasure. Where we have no lawful basis for holding onto your personal data you are entitled to require us to delete it.
 portability. In limited circumstances you may be entitled to have the personal data you have provided to us sent electronically to you for you to provide to another organisation.
If you have any concerns or complaints about how we are handling your data please do not hesitate to get in touch by (see `How to contact us'). You can also contact the Information Commissioner's Office and can find information on how to do this at www.ico.org.uk.
HOW TO CONTACT US

Email: Phone: Mail:

Info@Datascopeplc.com 0845 450 7387 Datascope Systems Limited, Access House, Aviation Park, Chester, CH4 0GZ

