Notice  of  Privacy  Practices  
THIS  NOTICE  DESCRIBES  HOW  MEDICAL  INFORMATION  ABOUT  YOU  MAY  BE  USED  AND  DISCLOSED   AND  HOW  YOU  CAN  GET  ACCESS  TO  THIS  INFORMATION.    PLEASE  REVIEW  IT  CAREFULLY.  
AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  will  ask  you  to  sign  an  Acknowledgement  that  you  have  received  this  Notice  of  Privacy   Practices  (Notice).  This  Notice  describes  how  AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  may  use  and  disclose  your  protected  health   information  in  accordance  with  the  HIPAA  Privacy  Rule.    It  also  describes  your  rights  and  AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.   duties  with  respect  to  protected  health  information  about  you.      
Section  A:  Uses  and  Disclosures  of  Protected  Health  Information  
1. Treatment,  Payment  and  Health  Care  Operations  
a. We  will  use  your  health  information  to  provide  treatment.    This  may  involve  receiving  or  sharing   information  with  other  health  care  providers  such  as  your  physician.    This  information  may  be   written,  verbal,  electronic  or  via  facsimile.    This  will  include  receiving  prescription  orders  so  that   we  may  dispense  prescription  medications.    We  may  also  share  information  with  other  health   care  providers  who  are  treating  you  to  coordinate  the  different  things  you  need,  such  as   medications,  lab  work  or  other  appointments.  We  may  also  contact  you  to  provide  treatment-- related  services,  such  as  refill  reminders,  treatment  alternatives  and  other  health  related  services   that  may  be  of  benefit  to  you.    
b. We  will  use  your  health  information  to  obtain  payment.    This  will  include  sending  claims  for   payment  to  your  insurance  or  third--party  payer.    It  may  also  include  providing  health  information   to  the  payer  to  resolve  issues  of  claim  coverage.    
c. We  will  use  your  health  information  for  our  health  care  operations  necessary  to  run  the   pharmacy.    This  may  include  monitoring  the  quality  of  care  that  our  employees  provide  to  you   and  for  training  purposes.      
2. Permitted  or  Required  Uses  and  Disclosures  
a. Our  pharmacists,  using  their  professional  judgment  may  disclose  your  protected  health   information  to  a  family  member,  other  relative,  close  personal  friend  or  other  person  you   identify  as  being  involved  in  your  health  care.    This  includes  allowing  such  persons  to  pick  up   filled  prescriptions,  medical  supplies  or  medical  records  on  your  behalf.    
b. We  also  have  contracts  with  entities  called  Business  Associates  that  perform  some  services  for  us   that  require  access  to  your  protected  health  information.    Examples  may  include  companies  that   route  claims  to  your  insurance  company  or  that  reconcile  the  payments  we  receive  from  your   insurance.  We  require  our  Business  Associates  to  safeguard  any  protected  health  information   appropriately.    
c. Under  certain  circumstances  AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  may  be  required  to  disclose  health   information  as  required  or  permitted  by  federal  or  state  laws.    These  include,  but  are  not  limited   to:   i. To  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  relating  to  adverse  events  regarding  drugs,   foods,  supplements  and  other  health  products  or  for  post--marketing  surveillance  to   enable  product  recalls,  repairs  or  replacement.     ii. To  public  health  or  legal  authorities  charged  with  preventing  or  controlling  disease,   injury  or  disability.     iii. To  law  enforcement  agencies  as  required  by  law  or  in  response  to  a  valid  subpoena  or   other  legal  process.     iv. To  health  oversight  agencies  (e.g.,  licensing  boards)  for  activities  authorized  by  law  such   as  audits,  investigations  and  inspections  necessary  for  AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  licensure   and  for  monitoring  of  health  care  systems.    

v. In  response  to  a  court  order,  administrative  order,  subpoena,  discovery  request  or  other   lawful  process  by  another  person  involved  in  a  dispute  involving  a  patient,  but  only  if   efforts  have  been  made  to  tell  the  patient  about  the  request  or  to  obtain  an  order   protecting  the  requested  health  information.    
vi. As  authorized  by  and  as  necessary  to  comply  with  laws  relating  to  worker's   compensation  or  similar  programs  established  by  the  law.    
vii. Whenever  required  to  do  so  by  law.     viii. To  a  Coroner  or  Medical  Examiner  when  necessary.    Examples  include:  identifying  a  
deceased  person  or  to  determine  a  cause  of  death.     ix. To  Funeral  Directors  to  carry  out  their  duties   x. To  organ  procurement  organizations  or  other  entities  engaged  in  procurement,  banking  
or  transplantation  of  organs  for  the  purpose  of  tissue  donation  and  transplant.     xi. To  notify  or  assist  in  notifying  a  family  member,  personal  representative  or  another  
person  responsible  for  the  patient's  care  of  the  patient's  location  or  general  condition.     xii. To  a  correctional  institution  or  its  agents  if  a  patient  is  or  becomes  an  inmate  of  such  an  
institution  when  necessary  for  the  patient's  health  or  the  health  and  safety  of  others.     xiii. When  necessary  to  prevent  a  serious  threat  to  the  patient's  health  and  safety  or  the  
health  and  safety  of  the  public  or  another  person.     xiv. As  required  by  military  command  authorities  when  the  patient  is  a  member  of  the  
armed  forces  and  to  appropriate  military  authority  about  foreign  military  personnel.     xv. To  authorized  officials  for  intelligence,  counterintelligence  and  other  national  security  
activities  authorized  by  law.   xvi. To  authorized  federal  officials  so  they  may  provide  protection  to  the  president,  other  
authorized  persons  or  foreign  heads  of  state  or  to  conduct  special  investigations.     xvii. To  a  government  authority,  such  as  social  service  or  protective  services  agency,  if  
AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  reasonably  believes  the  patient  to  be  a  victim  of  abuse,  neglect   or  domestic  violence  but  only  to  the  extent  required  by  law,  if  the  patient  agrees  to  the   disclosure  or  if  the  disclosure  is  allowed  by  law  and  we  believe  it  is  necessary  to  prevent   serious  harm  to  the  patient  or  to  someone  else  or  the  law  enforcement  or  public  official   that  is  to  receive  the  report  represents  that  it  is  necessary  and  will  not  be  used  against   the  patient.    
3. Authorized  Use  and  Disclosure  
a. Use  or  disclosure  other  than  those  previously  listed  or  as  permitted  or  required  by  law,  will  not   be  made  unless  we  obtain  your  written  Authorization  in  advance.    You  may  revoke  any  such   Authorization  in  writing  at  any  time.    Upon  receipt  of  a  revocation,  we  will  cease  using  or   disclosing  protected  health  information  about  you  unless  we  have  already  taken  action  based  on   your  Authorization.      
4. More  Stringent  Laws  
a. Some  states  may  have  laws  that  are  more  stringent  than  HIPAA.    Please  refer  to  the  end  of  the   Notice  for  the  laws  that  may  apply.  
Section  B:  Patient's  Rights  
1. Restriction  Requests   a. You  have  a  right  to  request  a  restriction  be  placed  on  the  use  and  disclosure  of  your  protected  
health  information  for  purposes  of  carrying  out  treatment,  payment  or  health  care  operations.     Restrictions  may  include  requests  for  not  submitting  claims  to  your  insurance  or  third--party  
payer  or  limitations  on  which  persons  may  be  considered  personal  representatives.   b. AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  is  not  required  to  accept  restrictions  other  than  payment  related  uses  
not  required  by  law  that  have  been  paid  in  full  by  the  individual  or  representative  other  than  a  
health  plan.    

c. If  we  do  agree  to  requested  restrictions,  they  shall  be  binding  until  you  request  that  they  be   terminated.    
d. Requests  for  restrictions  or  termination  of  restrictions  must  be  submitted  in  writing  to  the   Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.    
2. Alternative  Means  of  Communication     a. You  have  a  right  to  receive  confidential  communications  of  protected  health  information  by  
alternate  methods  or  at  alternate  locations  upon  reasonable  request.  Examples  of  alternatives  
may  be  sending  information  to  a  phone  or  mailing  address  other  than  your  home.       b. AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  shall  make  reasonable  accommodation  to  honor  requests.   c. Requests  must  be  submitted  in  writing  to  the  Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.   3. Access  to  Health  Information   a. You  have  a  right  to  inspect  and  copy  your  protected  health  information.    The  designated  record  
set  will  usually  include  prescription  and  billing  records.    You  have  the  right  to  request  the   protected  health  information  in  the  designated  record  set  for  as  long  as  we  maintain  your  
records.     b. You  have  the  right  to  request  that  your  protected  health  information  be  provided  to  you  in  an  
electronic  format  if  available.       c. Requests  must  be  submitted  in  writing  to  the  Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.   d. Any  costs  or  fees  associated  with  copying,  mailing  or  preparing  the  requested  records  will  be  
charged  prior  to  granting  your  request.     e. AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  may  deny  your  request  for  records  in  limited  circumstances.    In  case  of  
denial,  you  may  request  a  review  of  the  denial  for  most  reasons.    Requests  for  review  of  a  denial  
must  also  be  submitted  to  the  Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.     4. Amendments  to  Health  Information  
a. If  you  believe  that  your  protected  health  information  is  incomplete  or  incorrect,  you  may  request  
an  amendment  to  your  records.    You  may  request  amendment  to  any  records  for  as  long  as  we  
maintain  your  records.     b. Requests  must  be  submitted  in  writing  to  the  Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.   c. Requests  must  include  a  reason  that  supports  the  amendment  to  your  health  information.     d. AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  may  deny  amendment  requests  in  certain  cases.    In  case  of  denial,  you  
have  the  right  to  submit  a  Statement  of  Disagreement.    We  have  the  right  to  provide  a  rebuttal  
to  your  statement.     5. Accounting  of  Uses  and  Disclosures  
a. You  have  the  right  to  request  an  accounting  of  uses  and  disclosures  that  are  not  for  treatment,  
payment  or  health  care  operations.  This  accounting  may  include  up  to  the  six  years  prior  to  the   date  of  request  and  will  not  include  an  accounting  of  disclosures  to  yourself,  your  personal   representatives  or  anything  authorized  by  you  in  writing.    Other  restrictions  may  apply  as  
required  in  the  Privacy  Rule.     b. Requests  must  be  submitted  in  writing  to  the  Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.   c. The  first  accounting  in  any  12--month  period  will  be  provided  to  you  at  no  cost.    Any  additional  
requests  within  the  same  12--month  period  will  be  charged  a  fee  to  cover  the  cost  of  providing   the  accounting.    This  fee  amount  will  be  provided  to  you  prior  to  completing  the  request.    You  
may  choose  to  withdraw  your  request  to  avoid  paying  this  fee.     6. Notice  of  Privacy  Practices  
a. You  have  a  right  to  receive  a  paper  copy  of  this  Notice  even  if  you  previously  agreed  to  receive  a   copy  electronically.      
b. Please  submit  a  request  to  the  Privacy  Officer  listed  in  Section  D  of  this  Notice.    
Section  C:  AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  Duties  

AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  is  required  by  law  to  maintain  the  privacy  of  protected  health  information,  to  provide   individuals  with  notice  of  its  legal  duties  and  privacy  practices  with  respect  to  protected  health  information,  and  to   notify  affected  individuals  following  a  breach  of  unsecured  protected  health  information.    
AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc  .is  required  to  abide  by  the  terms  of  this  Notice.    We  reserve  the  right  to  change  the  terms   of  this  Notice  and  to  make  the  new  notice  provisions  effective  for  all  protected  health  information  that  we   maintain.  Any  such  revised  Notice  will  be  made  available  upon  request.    
Section  D:  Contacting  Us  
1. Additional  Questions,  Submitting  Requests  or  Complaints     a. If  you  have  questions  about  this  Notice  or  how  AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.  uses  and  discloses  your   protected  health  information  please  contact  our  Privacy  Officer  below.       b. You  may  obtain  forms  needed  for  request  submission  from  our  pharmacy  or  from  our  Privacy   Officer.     c. If  you  believe  your  privacy  rights  have  been  violated  you  may  file  a  complaint  with  our  Privacy  
Officer  or  with  the  Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Services.    You  will  not  be  retaliated  against  for  
filing  a  complaint.     2. Privacy  Officer  
Privacy  Officer   AmiCare  Pharmacy,  Inc.   1015  S.  Hackett  Rd.   Waterloo,  IA  50701   319--274--1040  
3. Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Office  for  Civil  Rights  
a. For  online  complaint  forms  and  contact  information  for  the  Regional  OCR  offices:   http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/index.html  
b. Email:  OCRComplaint@hhs.gov  for  assistance  or  questions  about  complaint  forms  
   Section  E:  State  Specific  Requirements  
None  
Version  #  1617628--  PAAS--2013--2.0   Effective  Date   This  Notice  of  Privacy  Practices  is  effective  as  of  09--20--2013        

