GDPR: DATA PRIVACY NOTICE FOR CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS
Motion Impossible Ltd ("We") are committed to protecting and respecting your privacy. This policy (together with our terms of use http://motion-impossible.com/terms-and-conditions/ and any other documents referred to on it) sets out the basis on which any personal data we collect from you, or that you provide to us, will be processed by us. Please read the following carefully to understand our views and practices regarding your personal data and how we will treat it. The rules on processing of personal data are set out in the General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR"). 1. Definitions Data controller - A controller determines the purposes and means of processing personal data. Data processor - A processor is responsible for processing personal data on behalf of a controller. Data subject ­ Natural person Categories of data: Personal data and special categories of personal data Personal data - The GDPR applies to `personal data' meaning any information relating to an identifiable person who can be directly or indirectly identified in particular by reference to an identifier (as explained in Article 6 of GDPR). For example name, passport number, home address or private email address. Online identifiers include IP addresses and cookies. Special categories personal data - The GDPR refers to sensitive personal data as `special categories of personal data' (as explained in Article 9 of GDPR). The special categories specifically include genetic data, and biometric data where processed to uniquely identify an individual. Other examples include racial and ethnic origin, sexual orientation, health data, trade union membership, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs. Processing - means any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction. Third party - means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or body other than the data subject, controller, processor and persons who, under the direct authority of the controller or processor, are authorised to process personal data. 2. Who are we? Motion Impossible Ltd is the data controller. This means we decide how your personal data is processed and for what purposes. Our contact details are: info@motion-impossible.com / Tel: +44 (0)1454 501010. For all data matters contact our Data Protection Officer on privacy@motion-impossible.com
Motion Impossible Ltd, Unit 12 Brunel Court, Dean Rd, Yate, Bristol, BS37 5NR TEL +44 (0)1454 227436 EMAIL info@motion-impossible.com Registered in England and Wales no.9422280

3. The purpose(s) of processing your personal data

We use your personal data for the following purposes:

· To fulfil a contractual obligation e.g. to send you your order · To maintain our own accounts and records · To inform individuals and companies of relevant news, events or activities · To inform individuals and companies of technical support information, upgrades and new product
releases · To transfer your data to our delivery partners · Legal Obligation ­ where there is statutory or other legal requirement to share information

4. The categories of personal data concerned

With reference to the categories of personal data described in the definitions section, we process the following categories of your data:

· Name · Address · Email address · Phone numbers · Financial and credit card information.

You may give us data about you by filling in forms on our website www.motionimpossible.com or by corresponding with us by phone, email or otherwise. This includes information you provide when you register to use our site, subscribe to our service, place an order, participate in discussion boards or other social media and enter a competition, promotion or survey.

5. What is our legal basis for processing your personal data?

a) Personal data (article 6 of GDPR)

Our lawful basis for processing your general personal data:

HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION

OUR REASONS (LEGAL BASIS)

Set up your Motion Impossible Account

Legitimate interest

Process Your Order / Notify you of its status

Fulfilling a contract

Manage your account and provide customer service to you To add you to a notification list for new product release where you have expressed an interest Marketing communications to inform you of events, promotions, upgrades and new product releases. To detect, investigate and report financial crime

Legal Obligation / Legitimate interest (depending on nature of service) Legitimate interest
Legitimate interest
Legal Obligation

Notifying you or changes or enhancements to our services or circumstances that may be relevant or of interest to you Logistics planning, demand forecasting, management information and research

Legitimate interest Legitimate interest

Motion Impossible Ltd, Unit 12 Brunel Court, Dean Rd, Yate, Bristol, BS37 5NR TEL +44 (0)1454 227436 EMAIL info@motion-impossible.com Registered in England and Wales no.9422280

6. Sharing your personal data
Your personal data will be treated as strictly confidential, and will be shared only with:
· Delivery partners for you to receive your goods · IT Companies; who support our website and other systems · Payment Processing; trusted third parties to securely take and manage payments · Credit Reference Agencies; when you apply for credit with us we will make searches about you with
credit reference agencies.
7. How long do we keep your personal data?
We keep your personal data for no longer than reasonably necessary. The length of time we retain it is determined by several factors including the purpose for which we use that information and our obligations under other laws. We may need your personal information to establish, bring or defend legal claims. For this purpose, we will always retain your personal information for 7 years after the date it is no longer needed by us for any of the purposes listed under `How we use tour personal information' above.
8. Providing us with your personal data
We require your personal data as it is a requirement necessary to enter into a contract. Please also refer to `How We Use Your Personal Information'.
9. Your rights and your personal data
Unless subject to an exemption under the GDPR, you have the following rights with respect to your personal data:
· The right to request a copy of the personal data which we hold about you; · The right to request that we correct any personal data if it is found to be inaccurate or out of date; · The right to request your personal data is erased where it is no longer necessary to retain such data; · THE RIGHT TO WITHDRAW YOUR CONSENT TO THE PROCESSING AT ANY TIME, WHERE CONSENT WAS
YOUR LAWFUL BASIS FOR PROCESSING THE DATA; · The right to request that we provide you with your personal data and where possible, to transmit that
data directly to another data controller, (known as the right to data portability), (where applicable i.e. where the processing is based on consent or is necessary for the performance of a contract with the data subject and where the data controller processes the data by automated means); · The right, where there is a dispute in relation to the accuracy or processing of your personal data, to request a restriction is placed on further processing; · The right to object to the processing of personal data, (where applicable i.e. where processing is based on legitimate interests (or the performance of a task in the public interest/exercise of official authority); direct marketing and processing for the purposes of scientific/historical research and statistics).
12. Further processing
If we wish to use your personal data for a new purpose, not covered by this Data Privacy Notice, then we will provide you with a new notice explaining this new use prior to commencing the processing and setting out the relevant purposes and processing conditions.
Motion Impossible Ltd, Unit 12 Brunel Court, Dean Rd, Yate, Bristol, BS37 5NR TEL +44 (0)1454 227436 EMAIL info@motion-impossible.com Registered in England and Wales no.9422280

13. Changes to our privacy policy Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail. Please check back frequently to see any updates or changes to our privacy policy. 14. How to make a complaint To exercise all relevant rights, queries or complaints please in the first instance contact our data protection officer on privacy@motion-impossible.com If this does not resolve your complaint to your satisfaction, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office on 03031231113 or via email https://ico.org.uk/global/contact-us/email/ or at the Information Commissioner's Office, Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF, England.
Motion Impossible Ltd, Unit 12 Brunel Court, Dean Rd, Yate, Bristol, BS37 5NR TEL +44 (0)1454 227436 EMAIL info@motion-impossible.com Registered in England and Wales no.9422280

