NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES
This notice describes how personal & medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. This notice also describes the privacy practices of persons or entities which have signed a contract with Gateway Behavioral Health Services and which are acting as business associates and have promised to follow the same rules of confidentiality.
If you want to know about the privacy practices of service providers who are not employed by Gateway and who are not business associates, you should contact them directly.
Please review carefully
PRIVACY PROMISE
Gateway Behavioral Health Services understands that your personal information needs to be kept private. Protecting your personal information is important. We follow strict federal and state laws that require us to keep your personal information confidential. No information will be sent to your employer, family members, friends, or anyone else, unless it is discussed with you ahead of time and written permission is obtained. The confidentiality of alcohol and drug abuse consumer records maintained by our programs is protected by Federal laws and regulations. Generally, programs cannot say to a person outside the programs that a consumer attends our programs, or disclose any information identifying a consumer. Each disclosure or release of information made with the written consent of a consumer with an alcohol and/or drug abuse diagnosis must be accompanied by the following written statement:
This information has been disclosed to you from records protected by Federal confidentiality rules (42 C.F.R. Part 2). The Federal rules prohibit you from making any further disclosure of this information unless further disclosure is expressly permitted by the written consent of the person to whom it pertains or as otherwise permitted by 42 C.F.R., Part 2. A general authorization for the release of medical or other information is NOT sufficient for this purpose. The Federal rules restrict any use of the information to criminally investigate or prosecute any alcohol or drug abuse consumer.
Violation of the Federal laws and regulations is a crime. Suspected violations may be reported to appropriate authorities in accordance with Federal regulations.
HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
When you receive services from Gateway, we may use your personal information for such activities as providing you with services, billing for services, and conducting our normal health care operations. If you have chosen a personal representative and have agreed to let your personal representative obtain your personal information, we will provide the information to your personal representative. If you have a guardian, we will provide the information to your guardian. If Gateway staff wants to share your personal information with anyone who is not employed by Gateway, you must give them written permission first. Some personal records, including confidential communications with a mental health professional and substance abuse records, may have additional restrictions for use and disclosure under state and federal law.
Examples of how we use your information include:
1

Treatment--We keep records of the care and services provided to you within Gateway Behavioral Health Services. For example, your service coordinator, program instructor, case manager, or professional therapist keeps notes on all contacts made in coordinating and arranging for services. If you receive care from a nurse or doctor working for Gateway, they will keep records for any care you receive. The Gateway staff may share your personal information to determine whether you are eligible for services, while helping to develop your service plan, to recommend to you service alternatives and other possible benefits, to tell you about other service providers who may be able to help you, and to remind you of an appointment unless you tell Gateway staff that you do not wish to be reminded. Your personal information may also be used to provide you with emergency medical treatment if needed.
Payment--We keep records that include payment information and documentation of the services provided to you. Your information may be used to obtain payment for your services from Medicaid, insurance, or other sources. For example, we may disclose personal information about the services provided to you to confirm your eligibility for Medicaid and to obtain payment from Medicaid. Gateway may use your personal information to determine the amount and type of Medicaid services you need and send this information to the proper state agency.
Health Care Operations--We use personal information to improve the quality of care, train staff, manage costs, conduct required business duties, and make plans to better serve you and other individuals enrolled at Gateway. For example, we may use your personal information to evaluate the quality of treatment and service provided by our service staff, to allow Gateway to prepare reports required by its contractors, or to allow Gateway to review direct service contracts.
CIRCUMSTANCES OF SHARING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
There are limited situations when we are permitted or required to disclose personal information without your signed authorization. These situations include but are not limited to:
 As required during an investigation by law enforcement agencies  To avert a serious threat to public health or safety  As required by military command authorities for their medical records  To workers' compensation or similar programs for processing of claims  In response to a legal proceeding  To a coroner or medical examiner for identification of a body  If an inmate, to the correctional institution or law enforcement official  Other healthcare providers' treatment activities  Other covered entities' and providers' payment activities  Other covered entities' healthcare operation activities (to the extent permitted under HIPAA)  Uses and disclosures required by law  Uses and disclosures in domestic violence or neglect situations  Health oversight activities  Other public health activities
(See 42 U.S.C. 290dd-3 and 42 U.S.C. 290ee-3 for Federal laws and 42CFR Part 2 for Federal regulations)
OUR PRIVACY RESPONSIBILITIES
Gateway is required by law to:
2

 Maintain the privacy of your personal information  Follow the terms of the notice currently in effect
* We reserve the right to make changes to this notice at any time and make the new privacy practices effective for all information we maintain. Current notices will be posted in Gateway facilities. You may also request a copy of any notice from the Gateway Privacy Officer.
YOUR INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS REGARDING CONFIDENTIALITY
You have the right to:
 Request restrictions on how we use and share your personal information.  Request that we use a specific telephone number or address to communicate with you.  Inspect and copy your personal information, including service, medical, and billing records. Fees
may apply.*  Request corrections or additions to your personal information. You must give the reasons for
wanting the change.*  Request an accounting or certain disclosure of your personal information made by us. Your
request must state the period of time desired for the accounting, which must be within six years prior to your request. Fees may apply.*  Request a paper copy of this notice even if you agree to receive it electronically.
Items marked with a star (*) must be made in writing. Contact the Medical Records Custodian for the appropriate form for your request.
CONTACT US
If you would like further information about your privacy rights, are concerned that your privacy rights have been violated, or disagree with a decision that we made about access to your personal information, contact the Gateway Compliance Officer:
Amanda Tillman 700 Coastal Village Drive Brunswick, GA 31520 Phone: (912) 554-8510 E-mail: compliance@gatewaybhs.org
We will investigate all complaints and will not retaliate against you for filing a complaint. You also may file a written complaint with any of the following agencies:
 The Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services at 200 Independence Avenue SW, Washington D.C., 20201 or call 1-877-696-6775, or
 The Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services at 200 Independence Avenue SW, Room 509F, HHH Building, Washington D.C., 20201 or call OCR's hotline--voice at 1-800-368-1019, or e-mail at ocrmail@hhs.gov
 Georgia Department of Human Resources (DHR), 2 Peachtree Street, Atlanta, GA 30303 or call 1-800-878-6442
** All other uses and disclosures not described in this notice require your signed authorization. You may revoke your authorization at any time with a written statement.
3

