PRIVACY NOTICE FOR VISITORS AND CONTRACTORS
May 2018

Responsibility Initial Approval Date Reviewed Review Date

University Secretary 22nd May 2018
May 2023
1

Privacy Notice for Visitors and Contractors
1. Introduction
1.1. This notice is for all contractors and visitors who work and visit the University of West London (UWL). It explains the purposes for which we hold information about you (your personal data).
1.2. From 25 May 2018, your data will be held in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
1.3. UWL is registered as a Data Controller with the Information Commissioner. The University Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer is the Data Protection Officer. If you wish to obtain further information about the University's registration, it can be viewed at: http://ico.org.uk/what_we_cover/register_of_data_controllers (University registration number: Z4666761).
1.4. All data is held and processed in line with the University's Data Protection Policy which can be accessed here.
2. What data does the University collect and why?
2.1. Access Control System ­ If you are issued with an ID card we will collect the following information:
 Contractors ­ Company name, your name and address, contact telephone number, and in certain circumstances a passport size photograph and security notes (special instructions and access restrictions) and times swiped in and out of the building.
 Visitors ­ Name, Company name and address, contact telephone number and in certain circumstances a passport size photograph and security notes (special instructions and access restrictions) and times swiped in and out of the building.
The collected data will be used for recording and controlling access into the university campus and security
2.2. CCTV - Will take images of people around the campus
Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) is installed at strategic locations to provide a safe and secure learning environment in all buildings as a part of the University's commitment to community safety, security and crime prevention.
2.3. Car Parking Registration and Permit Application
We will collect and retain your personal data when you apply for a University car parking permit or register your vehicle details with our Facilities Helpdesk/Security for parking purposes.
We will collect your name, telephone number, and vehicle details including registration number, staff/student ID card number and bank card details (via UWL Finance Online payment platform).
2

We use the data you provide to ensure effective visitor, contractor and car park management, Health and Safety compliance (orderly entry and exiting to and from the car parks and buildings) and inventory management.
We advise of applicable fees and issue the appropriate parking permits using information you provide us.
2.4. Visitors Register
We maintain a register of visitors which includes visitors, contractors, and external hire participants. For this register we will collect and keep your personal data such as names, company/institution details, telephone number, vehicle registration details and student ID number (SCONUL visitors ONLY). This information is collected for health and safety and security purposes.
We will collect and retain your personal data when you visit our campuses in the following ways:
 Visitors registers at various entrance receptions  External Contractors register  External Hire register  Key and Equipment issued register  SCONUL library visitors register  Children on University Premises form
For local residents' members of UWL Library, the following valid forms of ID will be collected as part of the library visitor membership registration process:
 Passport  Drivers licence  National ID card  Bank or credit card  Freedom photo card  Forces ID card  Police/customs/home office warrant card
For visitors with children we will also collect date of birth, address and names of parent/guardian/carer.
2.5. Accidents and Incidents Reporting
The University will collect personal data from the injured party or person suffering from ill health, such as, Name, Address, Age, next of kin, details of the incident to include any relevant medical history. The data is collected as University has a legal duty to document workplace incidents/accidents and to report certain types of accidents, injuries and dangerous occurrences arising out of its work activity to the relevant enforcing authority.
Incidents and accidents will be investigated to establish what lessons can be learned to prevent such incidents/accidents re-occurring including introduction of additional safeguards, procedures, information instruction and training, or any combination of these. Monitoring is undertaken but on an anonymised basis. The information is also retained in the event of any claims for damages.
3

3. Additional notices and guidance/policies
We also have some additional notices, guidelines and policies with further useful information about the way in which we process your personal data:
3.1. The University's Data Protection Code of Practice ­This contains a lot of useful general information on data protection and University practices. Please see: https://www.uwl.ac.uk/sites/default/files/Departments/Aboutus/Web/PDF/policies/data-protecton-policy.pdf.
3.2. Children on University Premises ­ A set of general principle designed to protect children and which apply to all children on campus who are not registered on a University undergraduate or FE. Please see: https://www.uwl.ac.uk/sites/default/files/Departments/Aboutus/children_on_university_premises.pdf.
3.3. The CCTV Policy ­ Find out more information on how we use CCTV system fairly within regulatory guidelines and law to strike an appropriate balance between the personal privacy of individuals using the campuses/buildings and the objective of recording incidents for safety and security. Please see CCTV policy: https://eandf.uwl.ac.uk/PoliciesProcedures/Pages/default.aspx.
4. Legal basis for processing
The legal basis for processing is as set out below:

Area Access Control

Legal basis Legitimate interests

CCTV

Legitimate interests

Visitors register

Legitimate interests

Accidents and

Legal

incidents reporting requirement

Further information It is in the University's legitimate interests to ensure that there is a safe environment for work, study and the community accessing facilities It is in the University's legitimate interests to ensure that there is a safe environment for work, study and the community accessing facilities It is in the University's legitimate interests to ensure that there is a safe environment for work, study and the community accessing facilities This is a requirement under our Health and Safety obligations

5. Disclosures
The University would only disclose information from the access control system, CCTV or visitors register which is required to detect or prevent crime. This is usually on receipt of a Police issued personal data request form, required under Police Investigations Section 29(3) of DPA 1998. There are instances such as prevention of threat to life or serious injuries, where personal information may be provided without a signed police DPA form.

4

6. Retention periods Your data will be retained as set out in the University's Records Retention Schedule: see https://www.uwl.ac.uk/privacy .
7. Your Rights Under the GDPR you have a right to request a copy of your personal data held by the University. The University is required to fulfil this request within 20 working days. You also have the right to:  Withdraw consent where that is the legal basis of our processing;  Rectify inaccuracies in personal data that we hold about you;  Request to remove some personal data we hold about you restrict the processing in certain ways;  Object to certain processing of your personal data by us. Please see https://ico.org.uk/ for further information on the above rights. You may also contact the Data Protection Officer for further information (university.secretary@uwl.ac.uk) You have a right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office about the way in which we process your personal data. Please see https://ico.org.uk/.
5

