LIGHTRICKS - PRIVACY NOTICE
Lightricks Ltd. ("L ightricks" , "w e", "us" , "o ur" ) provides users with apps designed to edit and perfect photos, create images and share your creations through social media and email (the "Apps" ). Our Apps include Facetune, Facetune 2, Enlight, Enlight Photofox, Enlight Videoleap, Enlight Quickshot and more. This Privacy Notice (the "Notice" ) describes the how we collect and use your personal data through our Apps. It also describes the rights and options available to you with respect to your personal information.

WHO WE ARE
We are the data Lightricks Ltd. is the data controller of the personal data we collect via the controller of the Apps and use and share as further described below. personal data we collect via We are located at Professor Racah St, Building 5.4, Jerusalem, Israel, 91904. the Apps.

CONTACT US

How to contact our Data Protection Officer

If you have any questions or requests concerning your personal data or about our privacy practices and policies, you may contact our Data Protection Officer at: d po@lightricks.com

How to contact our The European representative of Lightricks, for purposes of this Notice will be

European

Lightricks UK Inc., If you are within the European Economic Area, you may

representative contact our European representative the at the following address:

eu.representative@lightricks.com

PERSONAL DATA WE COLLECT

We collect analytical When you use our Apps, we will record and collect the following

information

information (collectively, "A nalytical Information" ):

about your use of the Apps.

1. Unique operational identifiers, that allow us to identify a user

across multiple devices.

2. Unique advertising identifiers, We use it for advertising as we

further describe in this Notice.

3. IP address from which you access the Apps. We can also identify

your geo-location via your IP address.

4. Device information, including device type, operating system

version, time zone and your preferred languages.

5. Usage information, such as the time and date you accessed the

Apps, the features you used, your preferences and for how long

you use an App every time you launch it.

If you made an in-app purchase ­ we will receive your receipt from Apple

If you choose to subscribe to our VIP/PRO accounts or to purchase items through our Apps, we will collect the information provided by Apple on the respective invoice ("P urchase Information" ).

The overall personal data outlined above will be referred to as the "I nformation" .

SOURCE OF PERSONAL DATA
We do not collect the Information we disclosed above only by ourselves. We obtain some of it from the following sources ("V endors"):
1. AppsFlyer, Inc. AppsFlyer's privacy policy is available here. you can opt-out of AppsFlyer Analytics tracking by sending an email to: p rivacy@appsflyer.com;
2. Taplytics, Inc.; Taplytics' privacy policy is available here.
3. Firebase (Google); Taplytics' privacy policy is available h ere.
4. Facebook; Facebook's privacy policy is available here. The Vendors may also collect your Information through their designated code incorporated in our Apps. We use their services for the purposes set forth below.

HOW WE USE PERSONAL DATA

We use your Information to improve and enhance the Apps and our services.

We use your Information for the following purposes:
1. Maintain and improve our Apps; 2. Develop new services and features; 3. Enrich the content and features available on our Apps; 4. Adapt the Apps, its features and functionality to users' preferences; 5. Analysis of marketing efficiency.

The legal basis under EU law for processing and collecting Analytical Data is our legitimate interests in operating our Apps, ongoing management of our business and business development.

We also use your Subject to your informed consent, in some of our products (Facetune on the

Information to Google Play Store) we will use the Analytical Information we obtain to serve

provide you with

personalized

you with advertisements to products and services that we believe may suit

services

your interests.

The legal basis under EU law for collecting and processing your Information for profiled advertising purposes is your explicit consent.

WHEN AND HOW WE SHARE PERSONAL DATA WITH OTHERS

We will not share your information with third-parties, except in the events listed below or when you provide

us your explicit and informed consent

We

share

your We will share your Information with our service providers who assist us to

Information with operate our Apps. Our service providers are authorized to use your

the

service Information only as necessary to provide us with their services and not for

providers who their own purposes. We do not sell your Information to third parties. assist us in

operating our

business and the

Apps

We will share your If you have breached the terms of use of the Apps, this Notice or any other

Information

agreement you have with Lightricks, abused your rights to use the Apps, or

when

you

violate the terms

of

your

engagement

with Lightricks

violated any applicable law - Your Information will be shared with third parties (such as legal counsels and advisors), who handle the matter on our behalf, or with the competent authorities.

We will share your If we are bound to disclose your information by a judicial order or by a Information if governmental or regulatory authority acting within its legal authority, we
we are legally will comply and share the Information. required.

We will share your If we organize the operation of our company within a different framework, Information if or through another legal structure or entity (such as due to a merger or

we

change acquisition) - we will share your Information to enable the structural

Lightrick's business

change. However, the receiving party will be bound by this Notice.

structure.

SECURITY AND DATA RETENTION

How long will we retain your Information.

We retain personal data as long as we need it for the purposes for which it was obtained or until you ask to delete it. If you ask us to delete the Information, we may still have to retain it to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes and enforce our agreements.

We implement measures to secure your Information

We implement measures to reduce the risks of damage, loss of information and unauthorized access or use of information. However, these measures do not provide absolute information security. Therefore, although efforts are made to secure your personal information, it is not guaranteed, and you cannot expect that the Service will be immune from information security risks.

INTERNATIONAL DATA TRANSFERS

We will transfer your We are based in the State of Israel. The Information we collect from you will

Information to be processed in Israel, which is recognized by the European Union ("EU") as

third countries having adequate protection for personal data.

only

in

accordance with We will only transfer your Information from within the EU to other

applicable data jurisdictions if they have been deemed to have an adequate level of data protection laws.
protection by the EU, or as otherwise permitted by the applicable data

protection laws.

YOUR EU RIGHTS

You have the right to access, update or delete your Information and obtain a copy of your Information.

If you are in the EU, you have the right to access the personal information about you that we store on our systems, and have us update, correct or delete it. You are also entitled to obtain from us your Information (excluding data we obtained from other sources) in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format, and have the right to transmit those data to another data controller. If you wish to exercise any of these rights, contact

us at contact@lightricks.com.

You have a right to If you are in the EU, you can lodge a complaint to the supervisory authority

submit

a under the General data Protection Regulations ("GDPR"), in particular in the

complaint to the Member State of your residence, place of work or where the alleged

relevant

infringement of the GDPR occured. For a list of supervisory authorities in the

supervisory data

protection

EU, click here.

authority.

MINORS
You must be at least 13 The Apps are not intended for minors under the age of 13. IF YOU ARE years of age to UNDER THE AGE OF 13 YOU MAY NOT USE THE APPS. use the Apps.

CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY NOTICE

If we change this Notice, we will notify you in advance.

From time to time, we may change this Notice. If you are a registered user, we will provide you notice of such changes through the Apps. In case of legal requirement, we may also introduce immediate changes to the Notice and require that you accept them. In any event, if you do not consent to the amended Notice, we may terminate your user account. The latest version of the Notice will always be accessible on the Apps.

Last Update: May 24, 2018

