Facts Why? What?
How?

Updated June 1, 2018
What Does LPL Financial Do with Your Personal Information?
Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.

The types of personal information we collect can include:

 Social Security number  Investment experience

 Income

 Account transactions

 Assets

 Retirement assets

When you are no longer our customer, we will continue to hold your information and share it as described in this notice.

All financial companies need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons why financial companies can share their customers' personal information, the reasons LPL chooses to share personal information and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons We Can Share Your Personal Information
For our everyday business purposes, such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus

Does

Can You

LPL Financial Limit This

Share?

Sharing?

Yes

No

For our marketing purposes to offer our products and services to you

No

For joint marketing with other financial companies

Yes

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes--information about your transactions and experiences Yes

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes--information about your creditworthiness

No

For non-affiliates to market to you--for clients with accounts established with LPL

No

representatives at banks or credit unions

For non-affiliates to market to you--for clients with accounts established with LPL

Yes*

independent representatives

* If your independent representative terminates his or her relationship with us and moves to another brokerage or investment advisory firm, we or your independent representative may disclose your personal information to the new firm, unless you instruct us not to by returning the completed Privacy Choices Notice form attached to this notice.

Questions?

Go to www.lpl.com

We don't share No
No
We don't share
We don't share
Yes

Securities offered through LPL Financial, a registered investment advisor, member FINRA/SIPC. Not FDIC/NCUA Insured Not Bank/Credit Union Guaranteed May Lose Value Not Guaranteed by Any Government Agency Not a Bank/Credit Union Deposit
A registered investment advisor Tracking #1-733334a (exp. 12/19)

Who We Are
Who is providing this notice?

LPL Financial LLC and its affiliates (collectively, LPL Financial). Our affiliates include the following:

 Fortigent LLC

 PTC Holdings, Inc.

 LPL Insurance Associates, Inc.

 The Private Trust Company, N.A.

What We Do
How does LPL Financial protect my personal information?

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings.
Our online environment uses security technologies, including layered security and access controls over personal information. For further information, please visit the page How LPL Financial Secures Your Information.

How does LPL Financial collect my personal information?

We collect your personal information, for example, when you:

 Open an account  Apply for insurance  Seek advice about your investments

 Enter into an investment advisory account  Tell us about your investment or retirement portfolio

We also collect your personal information from others such as credit bureaus, affiliates or other companies.

Why can't I limit all sharing?

Federal law gives you the right to limit only:  Sharing for affiliates' everyday business purposes--information about your creditworthiness  Affiliates from using your information to market to you  Sharing for non-affiliates to market to you
State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing. See below for more on your rights under state law.

What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?

Your choices will apply to everyone on your account.

Definitions
Affiliates
Non-Affiliates
Joint marketing

Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial companies.  Our affiliates include companies with an LPL Financial name; financial companies such as The Private Trust
Company, N.A; non-financial companies and others.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial companies.  Non-affiliates we may share information with include an independent representative's new brokerage or an
investment advisory firm.
A formal agreement between non-affiliates financial companies that together market financial products or services to you:  This may include banks, credit unions or other financial institutions with which we have a joint marketing agreement

Other Important Information
Information for California, North Dakota, and Vermont Customers In response to applicable state law, if the mailing address provided for your account is in California, North Dakota, or Vermont, we will automatically treat your account as if you do not want us to disclose your personal information to non-affiliated third parties for purposes of them marketing to you, except as permitted by the applicable state law.

A registered investment advisor Tracking #1-733334a (exp. 12/19)

Additional Information Regarding the LPL Financial Privacy Notice
For clients of LPL advisors also affiliated with a bank, credit union or other financial institution
If your account was opened in our offices located at a financial institution, such as a bank or credit union; and that financial institution decides to enter into a relationship with a new financial services provider, we may share your information with that new financial services provider so that your account can continue to be serviced.

Mail-In Form

Privacy Choices Notice
(To be used by clients of LPL Financial independent advisors only--not clients of advisors associated with a bank or credit union)
If you would like to limit the personal information that your financial advisor could disclose or take if he or she moved to another brokerage or investment advisory firm and terminated the relationship with LPL, please complete and mail the following form to:
Privacy Management LPL Financial 1055 LPL Way Fort Mill, SC 29715
You can withdraw your opt-out choice at any time by contacting us in writing at the address provided above.
If your primary address is in a state that requires your affirmative consent to share your personal information with the New Firm, then you must give your written consent before we will allow your financial advisor to take any of your personal information to that New Firm.
Please be aware that LPL Financial entered into the Protocol for Broker Recruiting (Protocol) on September 4, 2008, with certain other brokerage firms, and if LPL remains a signatory to the Protocol as of the effective date of your advisor's termination from LPL, then LPL will permit your financial advisor to take your name, address, phone number, email address and the account title of the accounts serviced (or additional information as permitted if the Protocol is amended) while your financial advisor was associated with LPL if your advisor joins one of these Protocol firms. The retention of this limited information by your advisor under the Protocol may occur even if you have exercised your rights to limit information sharing as described above.

B y completing and returning this form as described, I am instructing LPL Financial to limit the personal information about me that my financial advisor could disclose or take if he or she moves to another brokerage or investment advisory firm and terminates the relationship with LPL Financial. However, I understand that LPL may disclose my name, address, telephone number, email and the account title of the accounts serviced by my advisor to the new brokerage or investment advisory firm as allowed under federal and certain state laws and the Protocol.

Please note that for accounts held jointly by two or more persons, the privacy choices made by any account holder apply to all joint holders with respect to the account. In order for your opt-out election to be effective, you must complete ALL of the following information:
In order for your opt-out election to be effective, you must complete ALL of the following information:

Name (please print clearly) Address

City

State/Zip

Phone Number

Name of LPL Financial Advisor

Signature

Date

