Job Applicant Privacy Notice (compliant with GDPR)
As part of any recruitment process, WorldBridge Partners collects and processes personal data relating to job applicants. The organisation is committed to being transparent about how it collects and uses that data and to meeting its data protection obligations.
What information do we collect?
WorldBridge Partners collects a range of information about you. This includes:
 your name, address and contact details, including email address and telephone number;  details of your qualifications, skills, experience and employment history;  information about your current level of remuneration, including benefit entitlements;  information about your entitlement to work in the EU if required by our clients WorldBridge Partners may collect this information in a variety of ways. For example, data might be contained in application forms, CVs (resumes),or through interviews or other forms of assessment. Data will be stored in our Applicant Tracking System and backed up in other IT systems (including email).
Why does WorldBridge Partners process personal data? Given the nature of our Executive Search & Recruiting activities, we need to process data in order to work with you on possible job opportunities.
WorldBridge Partners has a legitimate interest in processing personal data during the recruitment process and for keeping records of the process. Processing data from job applicants allows us to manage the recruitment process, assess and confirm a candidate's suitability for employment.
If your application is unsuccessful, WorldBridge Partners may keep your personal data on file in case there are future employment opportunities for which you may be suited.
You are free to withdraw your consent at any time.
Who has access to data?
Your information may be shared with potential future employers for the purposes of the recruitment exercise only with your consent. This includes members of a potential employer: eg HR and recruitment team and interviewers involved in the recruitment process. This may also include the Applicant Tracking System of potential employers.
How does WorldBridge Partners protect your data?
We take the security of your data seriously. We have internal policies and controls in place to ensure that your data is not lost, accidentally destroyed, misused or disclosed, and is not accessed except by our employees in the proper performance of their duties.
For how long does WorldBridge Partners keep data?
WorldBridge Partners will hold your data on file for future employment opportunities until you decide to withdraw your consent. You will be asked when you submit your CV whether you give us consent to hold your details in order to be considered for open positions.
Your right to access your data
As a data subject, you have a number of rights. You can:

 access and obtain a copy of your data on request;  require the organisation to change incorrect or incomplete data;
 require the organisation to delete (right to be forgotten) or stop processing your data, for example where the data is no longer necessary for the purposes of processing
If you would like to exercise any of these rights, please contact Chris Coulter at ccoulter@worldbridgepartners.com.
If you believe that WorldBridge Partners has not complied with your data protection rights, you can complain to the Information Commissioner.

