U.S. Consumer Privacy Notice

FACTS

WHAT DOES BANK OF AMERICA DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?

Rev. 01/2018

Why? What? How?

Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Under federal law, that means personally identifiable information. Federal law gives consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.
The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service you have with us. This information can include:  Social Security number and employment information  account balances, transaction history and credit information  assets and investment experience
All financial companies need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday business. In the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their customers' personal information; the reasons Bank of America chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

Reasons we can share your personal information

Does Bank of America
share?

Can you limit this sharing?

For our everyday business purposes-- such as to process your transactions, maintain your account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus

Yes

No

For our marketing purposes-- with service providers we use to offer our products and services to you (please see below to limit the ways we contact you)

Yes

No

For joint marketing with other financial companies

Yes

No

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-- information about your transactions and experiences

Yes

No

For our affiliates' everyday business purposes-- information about your creditworthiness

Yes

Yes

For nonaffiliates to market to you-- for all credit card accounts

Yes

Yes

For nonaffiliates to market to you-- for accounts and services endorsed by another organization (e.g., debit card co-branded with a baseball team) "Sponsored Accounts"
For nonaffiliates to market to you-- for accounts other than credit card accounts and Sponsored Accounts, such as insurance, investments, deposit and lending

Yes

Yes

No

We don't share

To limit our sharing

 Visit us online: bankofamerica.com/privacy  Call 888.341.5000--our menu will prompt you through your choices  Talk to your assigned financial advisor Please note: If you are a new customer, we can begin sharing your information 45 days from the date we sent this notice. When you are no longer our customer, we continue to share your information as described in this notice. However, you can contact us at any time to limit our sharing.

To limit direct marketing contact
Questions?

 Visit us online: bankofamerica.com/privacy  Call 888.341.5000-- our menu will prompt you through your choices  Talk to your assigned financial advisor Please note: Direct marketing is email, postal mail and telephone marketing. Your telephone and postal mail opt-out choices will last for five years, subject to applicable law. Even if you limit direct marketing, we may still contact you to service your account or as otherwise allowed by law.
Call 888.341.5000 or go to bankofamerica.com/privacy

Page 2
Who we are
Who is providing this notice?

Bank of America U.S. legal entities that utilize the names: Bank of America, Banc of America, U.S. Trust or Merrill Lynch, as well as the entities listed in the Bank of America U.S. legal entities section.

What we do How does Bank of America protect my personal information?
How does Bank of America collect my personal information?
Why can't I limit all sharing?
What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?

To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and secured files and buildings. For more information visit bankofamerica.com/security or ml.com/security.
We collect your personal information, for example, when you:  open an account or perform transactions  apply for a loan or use your credit or debit card  seek advice about your investments We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies.
Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all sharing related to:  affiliates' everyday business purposes-- information about your creditworthiness  affiliates from using your information to market to you  nonaffiliates to market to you State laws and individual Bank of America companies may give you more rights to limit sharing. See Other important information section for your rights under state law.
Your choices will apply to you alone unless you tell us otherwise. However, your choice to limit sharing with nonaffiliates to market to you for credit card accounts or Sponsored Accounts will apply to all joint account holders. If you have more than one credit card account or Sponsored Account and you choose to opt out, you will need to do so for each account.

Definitions Affiliates
Nonaffiliates Joint marketing

Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.  Our affiliates include companies that utilize the names Bank of America, Banc of America,
U.S. Trust or Merrill Lynch, as well as financial companies such as General Fidelity Life Insurance Company.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and nonfinancial companies.  Nonaffiliates we share with can include financial services companies such as insurance
agencies or mortgage brokers, nonfinancial companies such as retailers, travel companies and membership groups, other companies such as nonprofit groups.
A formal agreement between nonaffiliated financial companies that together market financial products or services to you.  Our joint marketing partners include financial services companies.

Other important information
Do Not Call Policy. This notice is the Bank of America Do Not Call Policy under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We do not solicit via telephone numbers listed on the state or federal Do Not Call lists, unless the law allows. Bank of America employees receive training on how to document and process telephone marketing choices. Consumers who ask not to receive telephone solicitations from Bank of America will be placed on the Bank of America Do Not Call list and will not be called in any future campaigns, including those of Bank of America affiliates. Call Monitoring and Recording. If you communicate with us by telephone, we may monitor or record the call.
For Nevada residents only. We are providing you this notice under state law. You may be placed on our internal Do Not Call List by following the directions in the To limit direct marketing contact section. Nevada law requires we provide the following contact information: Bureau of Consumer Protection, Office of the Nevada Attorney General, 555 E. Washington St., Suite 3900, Las Vegas, NV 89101; Phone number: 702.486.3132; email: aginfo@ag.nv.gov; Bank of America, P.O. Box 25118 Tampa, FL 33622-5118; Phone number: 888.341.5000; Click on "Contact Us" at bankofamerica.com/privacy.

Vermont: Under Vermont law, we will not share information we collect about Vermont residents with companies outside of our corporate family, unless the law allows. For example, we may share information with your consent, to service your accounts or under joint marketing agreements with other financial institutions with which we have joint marketing agreements. We will not share information about your creditworthiness within our corporate family except with your consent, but we may share information about our transactions or experiences with you within our corporate family without your consent.

Page 3
California: Under California law, we will not share information we collect about you with companies outside of Bank of America, unless the law allows. For example, we may share information with your consent, to service your accounts, or to provide rewards or benefits you are entitled to. We will limit sharing among our companies to the extent required by California law.
For Insurance Customers in AZ, CA, CT, GA, IL, ME, MA, MN, MT, NV, NJ, NC, OH, OR and VA only. The term "Information" in this part means customer information obtained in an insurance transaction. We may give your Information to state insurance officials, law enforcement, group policy holders about claims experience or auditors as the law allows or requires. We may give your Information to insurance support companies that may keep it or give it to others. We may share medical Information so we can learn if you qualify for coverage, process claims or prevent fraud or if you say we can. To see your Information, write Insurance Services, TX2-980-01-43, 4200 Amon Carter Blvd., Fort Worth, TX 76155, Attn: Data Request. You must state your full name, address, the insurance company, policy number (if relevant) and the Information you want. We will tell you what Information we have. You may see and copy the Information (unless privileged) at our office or ask that we mail you a copy for a fee. If you think any Information is wrong, you must write us. We will let you know what actions we take. If you do not agree with our actions, you may send us a statement.
For MA Insurance Customers only. You may ask, in writing, for the specific reasons for an adverse underwriting decision. An adverse underwriting decision is where we decline your application for insurance, offer to insure you at a higher than standard rate or terminate your coverage.
Bank of America U.S. legal entities
Bank of America U.S. legal entities that utilize the names: Bank of America, Banc of America, U.S. Trust or Merrill Lynch, as well as the following entities: BACAP Alternative Advisors, Inc., General Fidelity Life Insurance Company, Managed Account Advisors LLC, NationsCredit Financial Services Corporation.

 2017 Bank of America Corporation l INS-07-17-0414.C

00-36-0444NSB PRE-046876

