Salesforce's Notice of Certification Under the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework
Effective as of May 25, 2018
Salesforce has certified certain of our services, for which we act as a data processor, under the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework (the certification can be found here).
Scope: Salesforce.com, inc. and our U.S. subsidiaries Demandware LLC, Heroku Inc., Krux Digital LLC and Quip LLC adhere to the principles of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework with respect to personal data submitted by Salesforce's customers in reliance on the Privacy Shield to the following online services: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Force.com, Communities, Chatter, Site.com, Database.com, Analytics Cloud, Commerce Cloud, Einstein Discovery, Financial Services Cloud, Health Cloud, Heroku, Krux, Marketing Cloud (services branded as ExactTarget, Social Studio, Predictive Intelligence and Advertising Studio), Pardot, Quip, Salesforce Quote-to-Cash, and Work.com.
Data processed: Salesforce provides online tools that our customers use to operate aspects of their businesses. These include tools for customer relationship management, customer service, social engagement, community building, data analytics, internal employee management, and platforms for building websites and applications, among others. In providing these tools, Salesforce processes data our customers submit to our services or instruct us to process on their behalves. While Salesforce's customers decide what data to submit, it typically includes information about their customers, sales leads, prospects, employees, and users of online tools, such as contact information, purchases, and billing information.
Purposes of data processing: Salesforce processes data submitted by customers for the purpose of providing Salesforce's online services to our customers. To fulfill these purposes, Salesforce may access the data to provide the services, to correct and address technical or service problems, or to follow instructions of the Salesforce customer who submitted the data, or in response to contractual requirements.
Inquiries and complaints: If you believe Salesforce maintains your personal data in one of the services within the scope of our Privacy Shield certification, you may direct any inquiries or complaints concerning our Privacy Shield compliance to privacy@salesforce.com. Salesforce will respond within 45 days. If you have an unresolved privacy or data use concern that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our U.S.-based third party dispute resolution provider (free of charge) at https://feedback-form.truste.com/watchdog/request. If neither Salesforce nor our dispute resolution provider resolves your complaint, you may have the possibility to engage in binding arbitration through the Privacy Shield Panel.
Third parties who may receive personal data: Salesforce uses a limited number of third-party service providers to assist us in providing our services to customers. These third party providers offer customer support to our customers, perform database monitoring and other technical operations, assist with the transmission of data, and provide data storage services. These third parties may access, process, or store personal data in the course of providing their services. Salesforce maintains contracts with these third parties restricting their access, use and disclosure of personal data in compliance with our Privacy Shield obligations, including the onward transfer provisions, and Salesforce may be liable if they fail to meet those obligations and we are responsible for the event giving rise to damage.

Your rights to access, to limit use, and to limit disclosure: EU individuals and Swiss individuals have rights to access personal data about them, and to limit use and disclosure of their personal data. With our Privacy Shield self-certification, Salesforce has committed to respect those rights. Because Salesforce personnel have limited ability to access data our customers submit to our services, if you wish to request access, to limit use, or to limit disclosure, please provide the name of the Salesforce customer who submitted your data to our services. We will refer your request to that customer, and will support them as needed in responding to your request.
U.S. Federal Trade Commission enforcement: Salesforce's commitments under the Privacy Shield are subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the United States Federal Trade Commission.
Compelled disclosure: Salesforce may be required to disclose personal information in response to lawful requests by public authorities, including to meet national security or law enforcement requirements.

