PRIVACY NOTICE FOR CANDIDATES
for roles at Ninja Theory Limited

DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES
We commit to you that your data will be:
 Used lawfully, fairly and in a transparent way.
 Collected only for valid purposes that we have clearly explained to you and not used in any way that is incompatible with those purposes.
 Relevant to the purposes we have told you about and limited only to those purposes.
 Accurate and kept up to date.  Kept only as long as necessary
for the purposes we have told you about.  Kept securely.

WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THIS DOCUMENT?
You are being sent a copy of this privacy notice because you are applying for work with Ninja Theory Limited and we are responsible for how we hold and use your personal information. This privacy notice makes you aware of how and why your personal data will be used by us, namely for the purposes of the recruitment exercise, and how long it will usually be retained for.
THE KIND OF INFORMATION WE HOLD ABOUT YOU
In connection with your application for work with us, we will collect, store, and use the following categories of personal information about you:
 The information you have provided to us in your curriculum vitae, covering letter and/or portfolio.
 The information you have provided on our application form, including but not limited to: name, nationality, UK working status, location, employment history, qualifications, notice period, reason for leaving current role, current salary and salary expectations.
 Any information you provide to us during an interview.  Any notes that we take at interview or the results of any aptitude or
psychometric tests.  Passport or VISA copies to confirm your eligibility to work in the UK, in
line with Home Office legislation/commitments.  We may also collect, store and use the following "special categories" of
more sensitive personal information:  Information about your race or ethnicity, religious beliefs, sexual
orientation and political opinions.  Information about your health, including any medical conditions,
health and sickness records.  Information about criminal convictions and offences where relevant for
the role.

HOW IS YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION COLLECTED?
We collect personal information about candidates from the following sources:



You, the candidate.



The recruitment agency which put you forward for interview, if relevant, from which we collect some or all of

the following categories of data: name, title, address, telephone number, personal email address, date of birth,

gender, education history, employment history, qualifications, salary expectations.



We may use a background check provider, from which we collect the following categories of data: name, title,

address, education history, employment history, personal references, credit reference, professional registration

information, affiliations to professional organisations, vehicle licence records.



We may engage a credit reference agency, if relevant to the role, from which we collect the following categories

of data: information on bankruptcies, bans from directorships, civil claims and judgements.



Disclosure and Barring Service in respect of criminal convictions and safeguarding, if relevant to the role you've

applied for.



Your named referees, from whom we collect the following categories of data including, employment history

and suitability for the advertised role.



Data from third parties from a publicly accessible source such a news stories.

HOW WE WILL USE INFORMATION ABOUT YOU
We will use the personal information we collect about you to:



Assess your skills, qualifications, and suitability for the role.



Carry out background and reference checks, where applicable.



Communicate with you about the recruitment process.



Keep records related to our hiring processes.



Comply with legal or regulatory requirements.

It is in our legitimate interests to decide whether to appoint you to the role since it would be beneficial to our business to appoint someone to that role.

We also need to process your personal information to decide whether to enter into a contract of employment with you.

Having received your CV and covering letter or your application form and the results from any aptitude or psychometric test(s) you may be asked to take, we will then process that information to decide whether you meet the basic requirements to be shortlisted for the role. If you do, we will decide whether your application suitably meets the relevant criteria for the role to invite you for an interview. If we decide to call you for an interview, we will use the information you provide to us at the interview to decide whether to offer you the role. If we decide to offer you the role, we will then take up references and/or carry out a criminal record and/or carry out any other appropriate check before confirming your appointment.

HOW WE USE PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE PERSONAL INFORMATION
We will use your particularly sensitive personal information in the following ways:



We will use information about your disability status to consider whether we need to provide appropriate

adjustments during the recruitment process, for example whether adjustments need to be made during a test

or interview or whether we need to provide you with additional information about access to our site.

Information about criminal convictions
We will collect information about your criminal convictions history, if relevant for the role, and if we would like to offer you the role (conditional on checks and any other conditions, such as references, being satisfactory). We are entitled to carry out a criminal records check in order to satisfy ourselves that there is nothing in your criminal convictions history which makes you unsuitable for the role. In particular if your role requires a high degree of trust and integrity since it involves dealing with highly confidential company and client confidential information and materials and so we would like to ask you to seek a basic disclosure of your criminal records history.
We have in place an appropriate policy document and safeguards which we are required by law to maintain when processing such data.
AUTOMATED DECISION-MAKING
You will not be subject to decisions that will have a significant impact on you based on automated decision-making.
DATA SHARING
Why might you share my personal information with third parties?
We will only share your personal information with your recruitment consultant, if relevant. All our third-party service providers and other entities in the group are required to take appropriate security measures to protect your personal information in line with our policies. We do not allow our third-party service providers to use your personal data for their own purposes. We only permit them to process your personal data for specified purposes and in accordance with our instructions.
If relevant, we may share your personal data with the Home Office in order to help you meet your visa requirements.
DATA RETENTION
How long will you use my information for?
We will retain your personal information for a period of 12 months after we have communicated to you our decision about whether to appoint you to the role. We retain your personal information for that period so that we can show, in the event of a legal claim, that we have not discriminated against candidates on prohibited grounds and that we have conducted the recruitment exercise in a fair and transparent way. After this period, we will securely destroy your personal information in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
If we wish to retain your personal information on file, on the basis that a further opportunity may arise in future and we may wish to consider you

IF YOU FAIL TO PROVIDE PERSONAL INFORMATION
If you fail to provide information when requested, which is necessary for us to consider your application (such as evidence of qualifications or work history), we will not be able to process your application successfully. For example, if we require a credit check or references for this role and you fail to provide us with relevant details, we will not be able to take your application further.
DATA SECURITY
We have put in place appropriate security measures to prevent your personal information from being accidentally lost, used or accessed in an unauthorised way, altered or disclosed. In addition, we limit access to your personal information to those employees, agents, contractors and other third parties who have a business need-to-know. They will only process your personal information on our instructions and they are subject to a duty of confidentiality.
We have put in place procedures to deal with any suspected data security breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of a suspected breach where we are legally required to do so.

for that, we will write to you separately, seeking your explicit consent to retain your personal information for a fixed period on that basis.
We may need to hold some of your data for longer, should the recruitment result in a hire of a candidate who requires a visa, in line with Home Office regulations.

Contact Us
If you have any questions about this privacy notice or how we handle your personal information, please contact us a privacy@ninjatheory.com.
You have the right to make a complaint at any time to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), the UK supervisory authority for data protection issues.

RIGHTS OF ACCESS, CORRECTION, ERASURE, AND RESTRICTION
Your rights in connection with personal information
If you want to review, verify, correct or request erasure of your personal information, object to the processing of your personal data, or request that we transfer a copy of your personal information to another party, please contact us in writing at privacy@ninjatheory.com.
RIGHT TO WITHDRAW CONSENT
When you applied for this role, you provided consent for us to process your personal information for the purposes of the recruitment exercise. You have the right to withdraw your consent for processing for that purpose at any time. To withdraw your consent, please contact privacy@ninjatheory.com. Once we have received notification that you have withdrawn your consent, we will no longer process your application and, subject to our retention policy, we will dispose of your personal data securely.

SPECULATIVE APPLICATIONS
If you submitted a speculative application to Ninja Theory, which was not tied to a specific vacancy, we will keep your details on file for a period of 6 months. After which we will delete your personal data and records. Should you want Ninja Theory to keep your details on file for longer than 6 months, please write to us at privacy@ninjatheory.com

NINJA THEORY LIMITED
Suite 20, Building 5, Westbrook Centre, Milton Road, Cambridge, CB4 1YG

Padlock icon designed by Smashicons from Flaticon

